Concerns over new virus from China prompt rare airport screenings for some travelers 
 Passengers traveling to the U.S. from Wuhan, China will undergo enhanced health screenings due to growing concerns over a new coronavirus that has reportedly killed two people in Asia, The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced Friday.

Screenings for 2019 Novel Coronavirus, or "2019-nCoV," will occur at three airports — New York City's JFK International Airport, Los Angeles International Airport and San Francisco International Airport — and about 100 additional CDC staff will be deployed to assist with the efforts.

The CDC has only conducted airport screenings one other time: In 2014, in response to concerns over the Ebola virus.

At that time, health officials screened thousands of passengers from three West African countries for Ebola but detected no illnesses.

The CDC says some of the dozens of patients reportedly sickened in the current 2019-nCoV outbreak may have contracted the disease from other people. But most of the patients have links to a seafood and at least one animal market, where authorities believe they contracted the disease from an animal, the CDC says, citing China health officials.

Wuhan is the most populous city in central China, with about 11 million people. All three U.S. airports where the CDC will be doing its screenings have direct flights from Wuhan.

MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome) and SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) are animal coronaviruses that previously evolved to infect people and cause deadly international outbreaks beginning 2002 and 2012. In both outbreaks, the CDC did not do airport screenings.

Jan. 7:Health alert issued to Americans in China as area grapples with mystery illness

About 5,000 passengers will go through the process in the next few weeks, officials estimate. Multiple countries in Asia have already began screening airline passengers from central China.

Fever, cough and difficulty breathing are among the most common symptoms of the new coronavirus. Earlier lab tests ruled out SARS and MERS as well as a number of other possible illnesses.

The CDC describes the screening measures as "proactive preparedness precautions," as the current risk to the American public is believed to be low.

On Thursday, the World Health Organization reported said there have been two confirmed international cases of 2019-nCoV — one in Thailand and one in Japan, both from people who had traveled to Wuhan. The organization expects more cases to be reported in other countries.