China admits it doesn't know cause of SARS-like virus or where it has spread to 
 China has admitted that it doesn't know what has caused the outbreak of a mysterious new SARS-like virus or where far it has spread.

But Beijing's National Health Commission claims the outbreak of a new strain of coronavirus is controllable amid fears it will rapidly spread across the country and internationally during China's busiest travel season.

The agency also said the transmission path of the new respiratory illness hasn't been "completely mapped" while the original cause remains unknown.

The outbreak has killed at least two people and left at least 62 others ill, according to official figures from Beijing, but there are fears that the outbreak is far worse than China is letting on.

Two cases have been reported in Thailand and one in Japan, all involving people who had travelled to Wuhan, the central city where the outbreak originated.

Imperial College London has said it suspects the number of cases of coronavirus may be underreported by China, adding that there could be more than 1,700 in Wuhan alone.

It said: "It is likely that the Wuhan outbreak of a novel coronavirus has caused substantially more cases of moderate or severe respiratory illness than currently reported."

In its first statement since the outbreak was reported in late December, the National Health Commission said the source of the virus is unknown.

It said it would step up monitoring during Lunar New Year, which begins on Friday and will see hundreds of millions of residents travel for celebrations.

The two deaths occurred in Wuhan, where the new strain is believed to have come from the Huanan market, which sells live animals and seafood.

Three others in that city are in a critical condition.

Last month, doctors began seeing patients with symptoms such as fever, cough and breathing difficulties. All had worked at or visited the market.

Officials believe the virus, which has caused pneumonia in some patients, is spread from animals to people.

Chinese health authorities and the World Health Organisation have not concluded that the virus can be passed from person to person.

But experts have warned that human-to-human transmission should not be ruled out.

The WHO has told hospitals that a wider outbreak is possible.

The US and most Asian countries have increased screenings of airline passengers travelling from Wuhan.

There is pressure on China to avoid a repeat of the SARS outbreak of 2003, when the government withheld critical information.

The outbreak of the respiratory syndrome was caused by a coronavirus and is believed to have spread from animals to humans at markets.

It spread to other countries, leaving more than 800 people dead.