China pneumonia cases soar past 200 with wider screening 
 BEIJING (BLOOMBERG) - A pneumonia outbreak in central China widened after authorities in Wuhan increased screening for the new Sars-like virus, with the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said there are signs that some might have caught the virus from other people.

Health officials in Wuhan reported 136 cases at the weekend, taking to 198 the number of people in the city known to have been infected with the newly identified coronavirus. Three people have died. Cases have also been reported in Japan, Thailand, Beijing and the southern Chinese province of Guangdong.

"Much remains to be understood about the new coronavirus, including where it comes from and how it is transmitted," the World Health Organisation's regional office in Manila said Sunday (Jan 20) in a Twitter post.

The United Nations agency released guidance for diagnostic detection of the virus Friday, facilitating the rapid testing of suspected cases. That should help scientists understand whether the virus is capable of spreading from human to human, and to better gauge the magnitude of cases.

It's possible more than 1,700 people in Wuhan have been infected with the virus, Dr Neil Ferguson and colleagues at Imperial College London, said in a study Friday.

Their analysis was based on cases reported outside China last week, with the assumption that it takes five or six days for someone to feel unwell after being infected, and another four or five days for the infection to be detected.

The CDC began screening passengers from Wuhan at three US airports late Friday, joining cities in Asia that implemented the surveillance measure days after the outbreak was reported on Dec 31.

It's a precaution against what Ms Nancy Messonnier, director of the CDC's National Centre for Immunisation and Respiratory Diseases, said was both a "low" risk to the general public and "serious" given its unpredictable and fluid nature.

"The situation is still evolving hour by hour and day by day," Ms Messonnier told reporters Friday. "We are taking a cautious approach to this outbreak and we're preparing ourselves to respond quickly to any new developments."

The novel coronavirus, known as 2019-nCoV, has triggered alarm because of similarities with the one that sparked Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or Sars, 17 years ago. Unlike Sars, which killed almost 800 people, the 2019-nCov isn't known to have spread to health workers.

The source and transmission routes of the 2019-nCov virus are still unknown, China's National Health Commission said in a statement on Sunday.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses, some causing illness in people, and others that circulate among animal, including camels, cats, and bats, the CDC said. Animal coronaviruses can rarely evolve and infect people, and then spread between people.

Some of the patients in Wuhan worked or shopped at a seafood market where live animals and wildlife parts were also reportedly sold.

"While most of these infections seem to be happening from animals to people, there is some indication that limited person-to-person spread is happening," Ms Messonnier said.

Provincial health authorities in Guangdong confirmed a case Sunday in a 66-year-old Shenzhen resident who developed fever and fatigue on Jan 3 during a five-day trip to Wuhan.

Two cases have been confirmed in Beijing, according to a statement by a local health authority on Monday. The patients, who have a history of travel to Wuhan, have been hospitalized and are in stable condition.

Officials in Thailand reported two cases last week, while Japan confirmed a case on Thursday. All of them either lived in Wuhan or had spent time there, though none was linked to the seafood market.

Health authorities said that as of 10 pm Sunday, 25 of the city's 198 cases had been cured. A further three had been discharged from the hospital. Currently, 170 cases are being treated in isolation wards at various hospitals, of which 126 cases are mild, 35 are severe, and nine cases are critically ill.

"Based on the newly revised diagnose and treatment plan, the screening efforts for suspect cases have been boosted," the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission said Sunday. "Meanwhile, testing plans and processes have been improved and optimised, and testing speed has been accelerated."

Of the 136 patients reported over the weekend, 66 were male and 70 were female; the youngest was 25 years old and the oldest was 89. The most recent illness occurred before Saturday, and initial symptoms were mostly fever, cough or chest tightness, and difficulty breathing.

Chinese authorities said the outbreak is "still preventable and controllable," in an attempt to reassure the public as hundreds of millions of people prepare to travel ahead of the country's biggest annual festivities.

The country will "implement non-proliferation measures," the National Health Commission said, adding it will increase monitoring over the Lunar New Year period that starts later this week.