BBC Question Time LIVE: Brexit Day celebrations and coronavirus fears spark fierce debate 
 This week, the coronavirus has sent shock waves across the globe as the deadly illness spread across the world which led to multiple audience questions and discussion among the panel. 
The virus is yet to hit the UK but discussions regarding how the UK will be dealing with the disease and whether British citizens in China should be evacuated or not was debated by audience members and the panel. 
Brexit Day celebrations were also debated among the panel of Tories and liberals who all agreed they were relieved that the UK had finally left the UK.
The panel was made up of Tory MP James Cleverly, and Labour’s shadow housing minister Sarah Jones, who is also an MP for Croydon.
President of the National Farmers’ Union Minette Batters, Businessman, and entrepreneur Sacha Lord and Comedian and writer Geoff Norcott also joined host Fiona Bruce in the Brexit heartlands of Derbyshire.
Question Time began at 10.40pm.
Follow below for updates…

  
BBC Question Time LIVE: As Brexit Day is FINALLY here Remainers set for one last moan (Image: BBC Question Time)
Next week's show will be in Harpenden in Hertfordshire
11.40pm update: Fiona Bruce closes the show in Buxton, Derbyshire 
11.36pm update: Audience member says, ‘I would class a mobile phone for a youngster as a drug’
She said that children's use of mobile phones often develops into an "addiction".
Mr Cleverly responds by saying that children having phones from the age of seven shocks him.
He said he has had to have "awkward conversations" with his children over mobile phone safety.
11.34pm update: Audience member says, ‘parents give them a mobile phone to keep them occupied, rather than actually engaging with them in proper conversation’
Sarah Jones says her two nine-year-olds don't have mobiles. 
She said: "Schools let them have mobiles."
"You have to make sure kids know what the dangers are. We need to be teaching them what the risks are."
She added: "The social media companies need to take more responsibility."
11.32pm update: Audience question - 'The average age of owning a mobile phone is becoming younger. Should we be concerned?'
Sacha Lord said the amount of screen time people spend on social media is "scary".
"I don't think it's the mobile phone we should be concerned about, it's perhaps the app on it, the social media."
11.31pm update: Fiona and Mr Cleverly clash as the Tory MP tries to take over her role
"Don't answer that question folks! That's not what Minette is asking."
Audience member says people need educating. The lady, who is a farmer, said there has to be a "consumer-led" movement to improve food standards.
She asks: "Who here would stand up and say, yes I’m going to eat chlorinated chicken from the United States?"
11.30pm update: James Cleverly and Minette Batters clash on Government plans for food standards post-Brexit
Mr Cleverly: "We have got some of the highest animal welfare standards in the world."
Ms Batters: "We’ve always said we want to maintain our standards, the point is about imports that come into this country."

11.28pm update: Mr Cleverly says, 'don't rub people's noses in it'
"For people who want to celebrate, great, enjoy tomorrow evening."
"For people who still have genuine worries, we are determined to calm your concerns."
11.27pm update: Fiona jokes that Nigel Farage's party in Parliament Square is not allowed to have alcohol or fireworks
"Doesn't sound like a party I would attend."
11.25pm update: Sacha Lord says he's relieved Brexit has finally taken place
He said Britain can finally concentrate on issues such as homelessness and knife crime. 
11.23pm update: Minette Batters said 'we should concentrate on getting it right for everyone in this room'
11.20 pm update: Audience member says: 'It’s quite a worrying time for us at the moment, we don’t know what’s going on’
The audience member said she is a student who is planning to study abroad in the coming year.
11.18pm udpate: Sarah Jones says 'it's worrying' and that we 'want our country back'
She said that we don't know what deal will be made by the end of the year. 
"This is a moment where we need to come together."
11.17pm update: Audience member asks: 'Are those who voted remain being mardy or are they justified in trying to curtail celebrations tomorrow?'
Audience member said: "I'm glad the country can move forward."
Mr Norcott said he thinks the economy will boom and that he will not apologise for being optimistic. 

11.14pm update: Fiona asks Mr Cleverly, 'what can we expect now?'
Mr Cleverly said he is not going to pretend to be an expert but that Britain has the disease management expertise to address the spread of the virus.
11.13pm update: James Cleverly says 'it's right' that we bring people home from China
"The people involved in this have done exercises and have practiced this...they know what to expect, they know the parameters."
He also said that before they are let back into the community, they will be examined.
Mr Cleverly added: "We are experts at this."
11.12pm update: Minette Batters says, 'It's enormously dangerous and we now have a global situation'
11.10pm update: Sarah Jones says quarantine is a 'safe approach'
"Our diplomatic service is at a low."
"As a country, we tend to be good at dealing with a crisis."
Coronavirus has now been branded a world health emergency.
11.05pm update: Audience member blames the press
She said: "I think they are scaremongering, I don’t think they give the correct information."
She said the media's role in reporting the virus has been poor and that the Government has done a "good job".
11.03pm update: Audience question - 'Is it really safe to fly anyone out of Wuhan back to the UK given the severity of the coronavirus?'
An audience member said that people should be quarantined in Wuhan, even if they are British citizens.
Mr Norcott said "he will keep it brief". 
Fiona joked, "that's the first time I've heard anyone say that during my time on Question Time."
11pm update: Geoff Norcott said HS2 should be done but not at further cost
Ms Batters said people don't know that the HS2 will go through historic woodlands and that farmers need representing.
10.58pm update: Fiona asks the audience whether they agree with HS2
Half put their hands up.
Sacha Lord said he thinks it's a good idea. 
He said it's unfathomable how they have worked out how much it will cost.
The high-speed railway, HS2, could cost in excess of £100billion to build.
10.56pm udpate: Audience member asks, 'Is HS2 the best way to spark infrastructure revolution?'
Sarah Jones said: "We have to go for this but not at the expense of everything else."
"None of them ever talk to each other!"
10.54pm update: Geoff Norcott asks, 'what is the problem with travelling side-to-side?'
"If you want to go side-to-side there's a weird prejudice against that, we might as well get a mule!"
"How about connecting the north with the north?"
10.53pm update: Minette Batters says public transport and Britain's infrastructure has been 'London-centric'
"London is out of touch with rural parts of the country. People feel let down and disadvantaged."
"We've had a two-tiered public transport system and it is failing many parts of the country that need it most."

10.51pm update: Lady in the audience asks Mr Cleverly, 'when will it be different?'
He said: "The Prime Minister has said enough is enough, we are going to make improvements."
He added: "This is the first of our promises that we will be delivering."
10.50pm update: Another audience member says her son bought a ticket from London to the North which cost £160
"It's impacting on family life."
10.49pm update: Audience member says it has been a 'disgrace'
10.48pm update: Fiona asks James Cleverly - 'How much do you take the blame for what has happened at Northern Rail?'
"The Government always has a role to play."
"We are getting to grips with what has been a failure."
10.47pm update: Sacha Lord says transport in the north is terrible compared to London
"Why does a bus in London cost £1, why does a bus in Manchester cost £4?"
"It's not fair! It's long overdue."
The audience erupts with applause.
10.45pm update: First question is asked by the audience - 'Should the department of transport and the treasury be to blame for the failure of Northern Rail?'
Sarah Jones begins by saying that the Government has no rail strategy. 
She asks: "Why didn't the Government act faster?"
"Re-nationalising makes sense because it's actually quite simple... Why didn't they do it before?"
10.43pm update: Fiona Bruce opens the show in Buxton, Derbyshire

Who is Geoff Norcott?
He is a comedian and writer who used to work as an English teacher.
His comedic work has done well, with him appearing on Mock the Week and Live at the Apollo.

Who is Sacha Lord?
Sacha Lord is a businessman and entrepreneur.
He co-created the popular festival, Parklife.
He also set up Manchester’s famous Warehouse Project.
He doubles up as the city’s Night Time Economy advisor.

Who is Minette Batters?
She is President of the National Farmers’ Union.
She runs a family farm in Wiltshire having grown up on a farm herself.
She is a trustee of the charity, Farm Africa.

Who is Sarah Jones?
Sarah Jones is Labour’s shadow Housing Minister.
She has been MP for Croydon since 2017.
She also previously worked for housing charity, Shelter.

Who is James Cleverly?
He is the party Chairman for the Conservative Party.
Under Theresa May he was the Brexit minister.
He also serves in the territorial army.