BS-VI costs: Oil companies to raise rates by rupee 1 at one go in April - Times of India 
 NEW DELHI: State-run fuel retailers will raise fuel prices by 50 paise to Re 1 per litre in one go from April to recover investments made for producing Bharat Stage-VI (BS-VI, akin to Euro-VI standard) petrol and diesel.“I don't think premium (for BS-VI fuels ) will be large enough for it to be staggered,” Sanjiv Singh, chairman of the country’s largest oil refiner and fuel retailer Indian Oil , said on Thursday after announcing trebling of the company’s net profit in the December quarter to Rs 2,339 crore.Pump prices are linked to petrol and diesel rates in regional trading hubs — Singapore and Dubai — as well as the rupee-dollar exchange rate. Since international benchmark prices for BS-VI equivalent fuels are higher, domestic rates will also have to rise. “We are in the process of working out the implications of supplying BS-VI fuel from April,” Singh said.State-run companies appear to have received a nod from the parent oil ministry for a one-time increase, using the window provided by benign benchmark prices and no state elections in sight. Crude prices are in the comfort zone and product prices are expected to face deflationary pressure as coronavirus casts a shadow over trade, air traffic and global economic growth revival in general.India is set to leapfrog from BS-IV to BS-VI standard, which has nearly the same — or better in some regards — emission level as a CNG ( compressed natural gas ) vehicle, from April 1. Delhi had switched to BS-VI two years before the deadline, while the entire NCR (national capital region) covering neighbouring cities in UP and Haryana had been getting cleaner fuels since October 2019.Singh said IOC refineries have started producing BS-VI grade fuel and the same will reach depots across the country by next month. “We are very much sticking to the April 1 deadline,” he said. The company has invested Rs 17,000 crore to upgrade its refineries, while the total investment made by all state-run refiners is pegged at Rs 30,000 crore.“Switchover to BS-VI fuel supplies by IOC's marketing and retail network is also in full swing across the country. As per current progress, about 80% of IOC's 121 bulk storage terminals/depots will achieve the conversion from BS-IV to BS-VI fuels by January 31. In the markets catered to by them, 100% dispensing of BS-VI fuels at petrol/diesel stations is likely to be achieved by the end of February,” Singh said. “IOC is confident of supplying BS-VI fuels across India well ahead of the deadline,” he added.