‘CM has a proactive approach to public health challenges’ | Bhubaneswar News - Times of India 
 Amid bird flu and coronavirus scare, health minister Naba Kishore Das tells Ashok Pradhan about the state’s ‘proactive preparedness’ for possible public health challenges besides sharing his long-term vision for better healthcare services in the state.n Is the state prepared to deal with possible cases of coronavirus?Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has a particularly proactive approach to natural calamities and public health challenges. Though there is no suspected case of nCoV (novel corona virus) in the state so far, we are not taking any chances. Those with a travel history to China are being kept in the ‘watch list’ and their health condition is being monitored. Two such persons have been kept in ‘home isolation’ as a precautionary measure though they don’t have any clinical symptoms. Soon test kits will be available so that blood samples can be collected by the Regional Medical Research Centre and sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for testing. Hospitals strategic to airports and seaports have been empowered with the required facilities to deal with any exigency.n What about bird flu?We are keeping a close watch on the possible spread of the H5N1 virus. There has been no case of a human being contracting the virus so far. According to protocol, the veterinary officials have been culling birds in some areas of Bhubaneswar where some samples had tested positive to the virus. They are collecting samples from elsewhere at random. Since H5N1 cases were reported in the state in the past few years, there is substantial community awareness. We are further building on that. There is no reason to panic.n The state health scheme Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) was supposed to be merged with the Biju Krishak Kalyan Yojana, the Odisha State Treatment Fund and the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana. But hospitals empanelled for one scheme are not entertaining the others. Why?That’s not entirely true. There may be cases where hospitals have confusions regarding the merger. Beneficiaries of any one of these health schemes are automatically covered under BSKY. We will soon hold a meeting of hospital administrators to remove the misconceptions, if any.n Any plan to merge BSKY with the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat?The state is open to it. I had said this earlier as well. However, we have requested the Centre to make a few changes. We want the central scheme to cover all the 70 lakh families, who are the existing beneficiaries of BSKY. The Centre’s scheme proposes to cover around 61 lakh families. This would lead to more than eight lakh families being left out of the health cover. Similarly, we have asked for free treatment, without the need for any health card in government hospitals, as the maximum patient load is on government facilities. If the Centre considers these requests, the state won’t have any problem with the merger.n The Orissa High Court had in August 2010 asked the government to start kidney transplant in three government-run medical colleges in Cuttack, Burla and Berhampur. But it’s been started in Cuttack only. What about the other two?Starting organ transplants and offering super-speciality care for heart diseases and cancer is under the active consideration of the government, both for the VSS Institute of Medical Sciences and Research at Burla and the MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur. Super-specialty healthcare targets can’t be achieved in a small period of time. Shortage of doctors, particularly specialists and super-specialists, is a major issue. One must appreciate that the government has opened four medical colleges (Koraput, Baripada, Balangir and Balasore) in the past four years. The state had only three earlier, the last of which (Berhampur) was opened in the 1960s. Seven more medical colleges are in different stages of completion. After five more years, we will produce surplus manpower in MBBS and in various specialities. They will help offer all high-end services.n Why has Odisha not been able to start cadaver organ transplants?The required infrastructure and protocol are in place. As and when we have a brain-dead person, and the kin are willing, the organs can be harvested and transplanted. But there can’t be a deadline for such a thing. This happens in an unforeseen situation.Has your role as health minister become less significant after the health department came under 5T?Not at all! This misconception seems to have been spread by my political rivals. 5T and Mo Sarkar bring any department under better supervision of the CM and additional number of senior officers. This is adding to our efforts to provide better services to our people. At the same time, ministers and officers of the department concerned are also actively involved in its workings. As health minister, for instance, I have to clear the files pertaining to health. 5T is only bringing governance in mission mode.