Bristol student rushed to hospital with 'flu symptoms' amid coronavirus crisis 
 A student in Bristol has reportedly been rushed to hospital after showing ‘flu-like symptoms’, as the UK continues to ramp up preparations amid the coronavirus crisis.

Footage shared on social media on Thursday shows what appears to be a hazmat unit set up at University of Bristol student accommodation.

Two people dressed in protective suits carrying medical equipment were spotted walking by Wills Hall, in Stoke Bishop.

It comes as the World Health Organisation declared the outbreak of the deadly virus a global health emergency.

Following the announcement, British medical officers increased the risk level in the UK from low to moderate.

According to Bristol Live, a letter sent from the university to students reads: ‘Earlier this evening, one of the residents in Wills Hall reported feeling unwell with flu-like symptoms.

‘As a precautionary measure, the student has been taken to hospital… Your health and safety is important, and we are grateful that students are following the advice of PHE and contacting medical services if they feel unwell’.

The university reassured students ‘there is no cause for alarm’ and left support contact details at the end of the letter.

A University of Bristol spokeswoman told the news site: ‘A student with flu-like symptoms has been taken to hospital as a precaution.

‘We are working closely with Public Health England (PHE) and will continue to monitor the situation and support this student. We are communicating directly with staff and students, whose health and safety is our top priority.’

In the UK, 161 people have tested negative for the virus as of Thursday.

Around 150 UK citizens are due to be brought back from a flight leaving the epicentre of the outbreak, the Chinese city of Wuhan, at 7am local time on Friday (11pm Thursday UK time).

Passengers on the evacuation flight, which will have military medics on board, will land at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire on Friday morning.

They will then be taken to an NHS facility on the Wirral for a quarantine period of 14 days.