In California: In-N-Out is forced out of town ... at least for now 
 It's Arlene Martínez, with news for Thursday.

But first, meet an 88-year-old skydiver who plans to celebrate his 90th birthday with, you guessed it, a jump.

In California is a daily roundup of news from across USA TODAY Network newsrooms and beyond. Click here for free, straight-to-your-inbox delivery.

A housing bill that would have forced cities and counties to allow denser residential projects near job centers and public transportation has died in the state Senate. SB 50 also failed the last time around.

The bill's author, Sen. Scott Wiener, D-San Francisco, had hoped this revised version might get him enough support to move it on. It gave jurisdictions more control over where to put the units so long as they produced them, and added a five-year timeline to put a plan into place in communities most at risk for gentrification (a concern flagged by many opponents). Still, it fell four votes short on Thursday.

Wiener's bill is an attempt to fix a housing shortage in California that is being blamed for a rise in homelessness, urban sprawl, traffic and pushing more people into poverty. He argues local zoning laws undermine the state's efforts to help fix the shortage.

State Sen. Toni Atkins, D-San Diego, vowed a housing bill will happen this year. "SB 50 might not be coming forward right now, but the status quo cannot stand," she said. "This is not the end of this story."

Winds topple a newly installed piece of border wall at the California-Mexico border.

The owners of a coastal SoCal power plant would pay the $27 million cost to demolish the facility in exchange for getting to operate another three years.

Coronavirus watch: The World Health Organization declares a global health emergency on the day the first U.S. case of person-to-person spread of the virus. The designation comes when the U.N. health agency determines an “extraordinary event” that constitutes a risk to other countries and requires a coordinated international response.

Homelessness is the top priority for Californians, recent polls have shown. A record number of people put those concerns into action in Ventura County during Wednesday's effort to count each homeless person.

Traffic, noise, air quality, crime. Those are the many ways a group of residents in Rancho Mirage said their community would be impacted by an In-N-Out Burger, and what prompted them to sue to try and block it from coming in. This week they scored a (possibly temporary) victory.

The popular SoCal-based chain agreed to withdraw plans — for now. But restaurant associates are likely to come back after doing the environmental studies that both In-N-Out and city officials initially determined weren't necessary. Residents vehemently disagreed. In-N-Out reasoned doing the studies would be cheaper than litigation.

The In-N-Out was so unpopular it prompted two residents to run for City Council with a central platform of keeping it out.