10 - January 31, 2020 
 Concerns about the Wuhan coronavirus have spread from land to sea and air. A new study indicates that 98.6 degrees may no longer be the standard human body temperature. Google decides to phase out third-party cookies, but other kinds remain. And Finnish stargazers capture an extraordinary aurora.

1. What U.S. state hosts the first contest in the presidential nominating process?

2. Basketball star Kobe Bryant, who was killed in a helicopter crash on Sunday, spent his career playing for what NBA team?

3. The first five confirmed cases of new coronavirus in the U.S. are in patients who'd traveled from what city? 4. At a cost of almost $2.5 billion, NASA is planning to launch a new rover to Mars in what year? 5. What city -- which is holy to Jews, Christians, and Muslims -- presents a significant challenge for peace plans between Israelis and Palestinians? 6. In 2020, there will be 13 full moons. How many are there in an average year? 7. What automotive company holds a "factory of the future" award from the World Economic Forum for a plant located in the medieval town of Regensburg, Germany? 8. What is the name of America's central bank, which was established in 1913, and which decided this week to keep a key interest rate steady? 9. A recent study by Stanford University indicates that 97.5 degrees Fahrenheit may be a more accurate measurement of what? 10. Google plans to eliminate what kind of cookies, which come from internet sites that you haven't directly visited? Click for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz. Click here to access the printable version of today's CNN 10 transcript. CNN 10 serves a growing audience interested in compact on-demand news broadcasts ideal for explanation seekers on the go or in the classroom. The show's priority is to identify stories of international significance and then clearly describe why they're making news, who is affected, and how the events fit into a complex, international society. Thank you for using CNN 10