WHO declares international emergency over coronavirus 
 The World Health Organization has declared an international emergency over the
new coronavirus epidemic — a decision many experts regarded as overdue as the
number of confirmed cases eclipsed the total of 8,100 people worldwide who fell
ill during the Sars outbreak in 2003.

Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO director-general, said: “The main reason for
this declaration is not because of what is happening in China, but because of
what is happening in other countries. Our greatest concern is the potential for
the virus to spread to countries with weaker health systems, and which are
ill-prepared to deal with it.”

Declaring a public health emergency of international concern is an important
symbolic step, signalling how seriously the world takes the epidemic of
respiratory disease caused by the novel coronavirus nCoV. In practical terms, it
becomes easier for the WHO to co-ordinate the responses of governments around
the world.

Under International Health Regulations, to which all 196 member states are
committed, WHO can require specific measures at ports, airports and ground
crossings to limit the spread of infection, while preventing “unwarranted travel
and trade restrictions so that disruption is kept to a minimum.”

At present, Dr Tedros said, “WHO opposes any restrictions on travel and trade
against China.” He praised Chinese efforts to control the coronavirus as “very
impressive — beyond words.” 

“Let me be clear,” he added, “this declaration is not a vote of no confidence in
China. On the contrary, the WHO continues to have confidence in China’s capacity
to control the outbreak.”

According to the latest WHO figures, which lag a little behind other counts,
7,818 cases of nCoV have been confirmed worldwide, of which 82 were outside
China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau. 

RECOMMENDED
ExplainerCoronavirusHow dangerous is the coronavirus and how does it spread?alt
[https://www.ft.com/__origami/service/image/v2/images/raw/http%3A%2F%2Fprod-upp-image-read.ft.com%2Fd4652ac0-41f3-11ea-a879-e56a76ed3e8a?source=next=scale-down=best=240]
In China, the National Health Commission said on Friday that 9,692 were
infected, 1,527 people were severely ill and 213 had died. There are also 15,238
suspected cases — suggesting that the confirmed toll will continue to rise
sharply over the next few days at least.

Dr Tedros urged people to beware rumours. “This is the time for facts, not
fear,” he said. “This is the time for science, not rumours. This is the time for
solidarity, not stigma.”

Public health experts outside the WHO praised the decision, which they said was
overdue. Jeremy Farrar, director of Wellcome, the London-based medical charity,
said: “Declaration of an international emergency will undoubtedly sharpen
governments’ focus on protecting citizens. 

“But we must also step up as an international community to make sure no one is
left behind — with all interventions, including public health measures,
diagnostics, treatments and vaccines available to everyone. 

“This will challenge the best-resourced countries but will have disproportionate
impact on fragile health systems in low- and middle-income countries,” Dr Farrar
added. “A global epidemic of a rapid-spreading novel respiratory virus like
this, which has crossed from animals to humans, is something warned of for many
years. It is also a stark reminder of how vulnerable we are to epidemics of
infectious diseases known and unknown.”

Thomas Cueni, director-general of the International Association of
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations, said the declaration would “serve
not only to signal to the need for epidemic preparedness, it will also serve to
further galvanise global collaboration with the private and public sector that
will be required to develop vaccines and treatments needed”.