Virus sparks close to 10,000 Chinese cancellations, more to come 
 The virus originated in Wuhan, China with many people dead and thousands infected.

Close to 10,000 Chinese visitors have so far cancelled trips here as a result of the coronavirus outbreak, but that is likely to be the tip of the iceberg.

More than 100,000 Chinese visit New Zealand each year on approved group tours which were suspended last week after the Chinese Government ordered tourism bureaus in China to suspend bookings.

However, because the outbound travel ban also covers flight and accommodation packages, Tourism New Zealand (TNZ) confirmed that could cover many independent Chinese travellers and up to 90 per cent of holiday visitors from China could be affected.

READ MORE:

 * Coronavirus declared a global emergency by WHO

 * Bumpy year ahead for tourism thanks to virus travel bans 

 * Cancellations grow as Chinese travel restrictions over virus start to hit NZ tourism

 * 'We could be seeing the peak': experts divided as spread of coronavirus slows

In an effort to get a handle on how badly the industry had been hit by the travel restrictions, TNZ sought information from the 38 approved inbound tour operators.

So far about a third have responded and they reported 9,400 cancellations, but businesses  serving the Chinese market say the true impact of the travel restrictions will be felt in the coming weeks as groups already in the country leave.

Tourism operators are now waiting to see if  the World Health Organisation's decision to declare a global health emergency has a dampening effect on wider international travel.

The WHO's new risk assessment follows the news that the disease, which although still largely concentrated in China, has now been reported in some 19 countries.

There is concern that fear of in-flight infection could prompt travellers from other countries to postpone long haul trips.

New Zealand has not had any confirmed cases of coronavirus and TNZ chief executive Stephen England-Hall said they were not aware of cancellations from other markets at this stage.

"This of course could change as the situation evolves, and situations like this are likely to have a global effect on consumers' confidence to travel, so it's something that we are keeping a close eye on."

Destination Rotorua chief executive Michelle Templer said she would be working closely with industry to gauge any wider impact outside of China, and as a short term response Rotorua was increasing its campaign activity domestically and in Australia.

Restrictions on outbound travel from China have also led Air New Zealand to reduce its scheduled flights between Auckland and Shanghai, and from 18 February to 31 March the seven return services per week will be cut back to four.

House of Travel commercial director Brent Thomas said airlines were being very accommodating if customers wanted to postpone trips to China.

Typically there was little extra cost attached to changing flights and some airlines were refunding travel booked to China.