Calls for Air New Zealand to suspend all flights to China to stop spread of coronavirus 
 Prime minister Jacinda Ardern outlines measures underway to evacuate and help NZ citizens at risk of Coronavirus infection.

As Air New Zealand scales back flights to Shanghai, pressure is mounting on the airline to suspend the service altogether to reduce the chance of coronavirus reaching New Zealand.

Air New Zealand said on Friday that it was temporarily reducing its Auckland-Shanghai operations from seven return services per week to to four return services from February 18 to March 31.

The reduction was in response to a decline in demand for travel between New Zealand and China as a result of the coronavirus pandemic.

Air New Zealand spokesman Doug Grant said while its Shanghai services were at capacity in the coming weeks, new group travel restrictions in place in China meant it was expected demand may ease in the short-term.

READ MORE:

 * Coronavirus: World airlines suspend China flights, cut services on virus fears

 * Airline cleaning standards differ during coronavirus outbreak

 * Coronavirus declared a global emergency by WHO

On Wednesday The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade advised New Zealanders against making non-essential travel to China due to the risk of coronavirus.

On Friday the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared that the coronavirus epidemic in China was a public health emergency of international concern.

The virus has killed more than 200 people with more than 8000 people infected worldwide.

Some airlines are cancelling flights to China including American and Unite Airlines, British Airways, German carrier Lufthansa, Israel's El Al, Scandinavian Airlines, Egypt Air and Turkish Airlines.

Numerous concerned members of the public have asked Air New Zealand via social media to stop flying to mainland China.

Graham Harvey‎ said a video released by Air New Zealand on Thursday showed how flawed the airline's position on coronavirus was.

In the video the airline's chief medical officer Ben Johnston says it had in place "very thorough aircraft cleaning procedures" and staff were trained to deal with unwell passengers.

"And those procedures are applied every day and the cleaning agents that are used are effective against viruses like coronavirus."

Harvey‎ said it's possible that passengers on a flight may be infected with coronavirus but not show any symptoms for seven to 14 days and still be transmitting during that time.

Cancelling flights was the responsible thing to do to protect not just New Zealand but the wider Pacific, he said.

"The idea that we can just let everyone come here if they're potentially contagious is just so stupid," Harvey said.

"By Air New Zealand allowing people to come into New Zealand unrestricted like this from China, they're potentially putting the whole of the Pacific region at risk."

‎Alexandra Nadja said Air New Zealand's China flights should be stopped immediately.

"I can only see an economic interest of Air New Zealand by not stopping the fights, not thinking about their staff members and the New Zealand public health."

She doubted the New Zealand health system could cope with coronavirus as there was already a shortage of health care professionals.

"Plus, who is going to pay for the costs of this?"

Six different carriers connect between Auckland Airport and mainland China.

Sichuan Airlines flies to Chengdu with three flights per week.

Air China flies between Auckland and Beijing seven times a week.

Air New Zealand has seven flights per week between Auckland and Shanghai and China Eastern has nine flights.

Hainan Airlines flies to Auckland from Hainan three times a week.

Board of Airline Representatives New Zealand (BARNZ) executive director Justin Tighe-Umbers said it had five member airlines flying to China.

He said he had spoken to some of its Chinese airline members and their priority was to focus on the health and safety of passengers and staff, and their duty of care to them.

"There is a reduction in seat demand for flights to mainland China, and flights are not as full as is typical for this time of year," Tighe-Umbers said.

"This is to be expected given developments."

Airlines would make their own decisions about their schedules and announce those to the market, he said.

BARNZ was focussed on ensuring all relevant communications from ministries were being received by its members airlines, and all airlines were ready to follow any directives, he said.

A statement from the WHO on Friday regarding the outbreak of coronavirus said countries must inform it about any travel measures taken against the spread of the virus.

"Countries are cautioned against actions that promote stigma or discrimination."

It said there was no reason for measures that unnecessarily interfered with international travel and trade and it did not recommend limiting trade and movement.

Countries were able to make their own decisions as part of their evidence based response but they had an obligation under international health regulations to explain the basis of those decisions to WHO.

New Zealand authorities have said there were no plans to screen passengers arriving from coronavirus-affected countries.

National Party health spokesperson Michael Woodhouse said the Government should increase screening urgently.

"The focus should be on ensuring travellers are screened properly at the border regardless of the country they've come from or the carrier they have used," Woodhouse said.

He said it was up to Air New Zealand to make decisions about its China service.

"At the moment it seems as though the airlines who have stopped operating flights have done so due to the lack of demand."