Tamil Nadu steps up screening protocol, orders blood tests for all travellers from China | Chennai News - Times of India 
 Director of public health K Kolandaswamy on Thursday said the screening protocol, recommended by the Union hea...

and other airports in Tamil Nadu are now required to provide blood samples for coronavirus screening with immediate effect. Additionally, they will be put on compulsory home quarantine for at least 28 days. 

Director of public health K Kolandaswamy on Thursday said the screening protocol, recommended by the Union health ministry, will begin by Friday morning. 

 

The samples will be dispatched for further tests to King Institute of Preventive Medicine in Guindy. 

Patients arriving from other regions of China would continue to be kept on domiciliary quarantine for at least 28 days after routine screening at the airport. All patients arriving from south-east Asian countries will be screened as per the new protocol, he said. 

In the past one week, nearly 78 patients, including 10 Chinese citizens, arriving from China have been moved to home quarantines. A health inspector and a village health nurse visit them every day. “They will be asked to shift to a hospital if they show influenza-like symptoms. Till date, we haven’t seen anyone with such symptoms,” he said. Patients on quarantine include students, businessmen and employees of manufacturing and corporate firms in China, Kolandaswamy said. 

The novel coronavirus, which was first detected in Wuhan, is now spreading to other parts of the globe. Kerala confirmed India’s first case of coronavirus on Thursday. A woman who studies in Wuhan tested positive for the virus that has till now killed 170 people and is spreading fast. As the number of cases is going up across the globe, the World Health Organisation and Centre for Disease Control, US, are monitoring the situation closely. 

In Tamil Nadu, the health department has set aside a special unit with ten beds at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. “Additionally, we have beds in Tambaram GH as it is closer to the airport,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. 

The department, she said, received reagents used in diagnosis from the Centre on Thursday. “We don’t have to send samples to Pune anymore,” she said. 

“As of now, there is no vaccine for coronavirus but personal hygiene goes a long way in prevention,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam. 

In the wake of India’s first positive case ,the state has stepped up healthcare vigilance in border districts such as Coimbatore and Nagercoil. 

 Download The Times of India News App for Latest City News and other airports in Tamil Nadu are now required to provide blood samples for coronavirus screening with immediate effect. Additionally, they will be put on compulsory home quarantine for at least 28 days.Director of public health K Kolandaswamy on Thursday said the screening protocol, recommended by the Union health ministry, will begin by Friday morning.The samples will be dispatched for further tests to King Institute of Preventive Medicine in Guindy.Patients arriving from other regions of China would continue to be kept on domiciliary quarantine for at least 28 days after routine screening at the airport. All patients arriving from south-east Asian countries will be screened as per the new protocol, he said.In the past one week, nearly 78 patients, including 10 Chinese citizens, arriving from China have been moved to home quarantines. A health inspector and a village health nurse visit them every day. “They will be asked to shift to a hospital if they show influenza-like symptoms. Till date, we haven’t seen anyone with such symptoms,” he said. Patients on quarantine include students, businessmen and employees of manufacturing and corporate firms in China, Kolandaswamy said.The novel coronavirus, which was first detected in Wuhan, is now spreading to other parts of the globe. Kerala confirmed India’s first case of coronavirus on Thursday. A woman who studies in Wuhan tested positive for the virus that has till now killed 170 people and is spreading fast. As the number of cases is going up across the globe, the World Health Organisation and Centre for Disease Control, US, are monitoring the situation closely.In Tamil Nadu, the health department has set aside a special unit with ten beds at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. “Additionally, we have beds in Tambaram GH as it is closer to the airport,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh.The department, she said, received reagents used in diagnosis from the Centre on Thursday. “We don’t have to send samples to Pune anymore,” she said.“As of now, there is no vaccine for coronavirus but personal hygiene goes a long way in prevention,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam.In the wake of India’s first positive case ,the state has stepped up healthcare vigilance in border districts such as Coimbatore and Nagercoil. Passengers arriving from Wuhan at Chennai and other airports in Tamil Nadu are now required to provide blood samples for coronavirus screening with immediate effect. Additionally, they will be put on compulsory home quarantine for at least 28 days.Director of public health K Kolandaswamy on Thursday said the screening protocol, recommended by the Union health ministry, will begin by Friday morning.The samples will be dispatched for further tests to King Institute of Preventive Medicine in Guindy.Patients arriving from other regions of China would continue to be kept on domiciliary quarantine for at least 28 days after routine screening at the airport. All patients arriving from south-east Asian countries will be screened as per the new protocol, he said.In the past one week, nearly 78 patients, including 10 Chinese citizens, arriving from China have been moved to home quarantines. A health inspector and a village health nurse visit them every day. “They will be asked to shift to a hospital if they show influenza-like symptoms. Till date, we haven’t seen anyone with such symptoms,” he said. Patients on quarantine include students, businessmen and employees of manufacturing and corporate firms in China, Kolandaswamy said.The novel coronavirus, which was first detected in Wuhan, is now spreading to other parts of the globe. Kerala confirmed India’s first case of coronavirus on Thursday. A woman who studies in Wuhan tested positive for the virus that has till now killed 170 people and is spreading fast. As the number of cases is going up across the globe, the World Health Organisation and Centre for Disease Control, US, are monitoring the situation closely.In Tamil Nadu, the health department has set aside a special unit with ten beds at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. “Additionally, we have beds in Tambaram GH as it is closer to the airport,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh.The department, she said, received reagents used in diagnosis from the Centre on Thursday. “We don’t have to send samples to Pune anymore,” she said.“As of now, there is no vaccine for coronavirus but personal hygiene goes a long way in prevention,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam.In the wake of India’s first positive case ,the state has stepped up healthcare vigilance in border districts such as Coimbatore and Nagercoil.