American Airlines pilots sue to stop US-China flights, citing coronavirus outbreak 
 The union representing pilots at American Airlines has filed a lawsuit to halt all flights to China, saying continuing to serve the region during the coronavirus outbreak poses a threat to crew members and the public.

"Recent events relating to the outbreak of the novel coronavirus in China have created a threat to the safety of passengers and flight crew travelling to and from that country," said the lawsuit filed in Texas on Thursday (Friday NZ time) on behalf of the Allied Pilots Association, which represents the 15,000 pilots at American.

The union's action came as the World Health Organisation announced it was declaring a public health emergency, setting in motion a plan for global coordination to stem the spread of the virus, which was first diagnosed last month in Wuhan, China.

It also followed US health officials more than tripling the number of airports that will screen incoming passengers for the virus.

READ MORE:

 * WHO declares coronavirus outbreak a global health emergency

 * Government charters Air NZ flight to assist Wuhan departure

 * Wuhan evacuation plans 'almost wheels up', says Winston Peters

 * 'We could be seeing the peak': experts divided as spread of coronavirus slows

 * Coronavirus outbreak could shake a vulnerable global economy

"All pilots are obligated to make safety our number one priority," union spokesman Dennis Tajer said. "There is enough uncertainty on this that it is a prudent decision to maintain a margin of safety."

The suit noted that several carriers, including British Airways, Air Canada and the Lufthansa Group, announced this week that they were halting all flights to the region.

In a separate message to pilots, union president Eric Ferguson said pilots should decline any assignment that would take them to China.

"Consistent with our lawsuit, I am directing all APA pilots to cease flight operations between the United States and China," Ferguson said. "Until further notice, if you are scheduled, assigned, or reassigned a pairing into China, decline the assignment ..."

"We are aware of the filing," American Airlines said in a statement. "We are in close contact with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and global public health officials to make sure we are taking all necessary precautions for our customers and team members."

American announced this week that it was suspending flights between Los Angeles International Airport and Beijing and Shanghai from February 9 through March 27. However, the airline said there currently were no plans to cancel additional flights.

"We will continue to monitor the situation and make any updates as needed," the airline said.

The lawsuit contends that continuing to offer service between Dallas-Fort Worth and several airports in China "is not only an unacceptable risk for flight crew members, but for the general public in North Texas due to the uncertainties relating to the disease, its incubation period and how the virus is spread".

American operates 56 flights a month between the Dallas area and China, according to the lawsuit. As many as 300 passengers and crew members may be on each flight, the suit noted.

According to the lawsuit, crew members working a flight to China are required by federal regulations to be on the ground for roughly 32 hours between flights, a rule that "creates potential exposure for flight crew members to the coronavirus".

Chinese officials said on Thursday that the death toll in the country had reached 171, with more than 8100 confirmed cases of infection - an increase of more than 1900 from the previous day. (The figures from Beijing include nine cases in the self-governing island of Taiwan.)

US health officials confirmed that a sixth person has been diagnosed with the virus in the United States, in Chicago. The man is the husband of a woman who was earlier diagnosed with the virus after returning from a trip to Wuhan.

The pilots union is in negotiations with the airline on a new contract, and the two sides have not reached an agreement after a year of talks. On Wednesday, pilots held a demonstration at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport to express their frustration.

But Tajer said the union's frustration with negotiations is separate from its concerns about the coronavirus.

"This has nothing to do with that," he said. "Safety is a separate issue."

The Association of Professional Flight Attendants, which represents those who work for American, voiced support for the pilots' actions.