Student removed from London uni by masked medics as coronavirus fears escalate 
 A student was removed from a university accommodation block by hazmat-clad medics on Wednesday evening, as fears grow that the UK will record its first coronavirus case in a matter of days.

Footage has emerged showing a masked woman being escorted from student halls at the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) at around 9pm last night.

Another student was taken away from university accommodation in Bristol by hazmat-clad medics earlier this evening.

It comes after Catherine Calderwood, Scotland's chief medical officer, said it was a case of when not if the UK recorded its first case of the virus.

A British Airways flight from Hong Kong was quarantined at London Heathrow at around 5am this morning after two passengers said they felt unwell.

In another scare, an ambulance crew wearing protective clothing collected a man from a hotel in York and rushed him to hospital, according to witnesses.

Sources told Mail Online the woman who was filmed leaving LSE was a Chinese student.

They said she was taken to hospital for tests - which came back negative - and returned to her flat afterwards.

Video has also emerged of two masked medics walking around the grounds of the University of Bristol's Wills Hall accommodation.

A spokesman for the university said: “A student with flu-like symptoms has been taken to hospital as a precaution.

"We are working closely with Public Health England (PHE) and will continue to monitor the situation and support this student.

"We are communicating directly with staff and students, whose health and safety is our top priority.”

This morning a plane was put on lockdown after landing at Heathrow.

Passengers were kept on the plane after two people on board were suspected of having the virus.

They all remained in quarantine for more than 45 minutes before being allowed off.

One passenger told MailOnline: "Everyone seemed nervous getting on, the pilot was having to chat to crew saying 'this is how disasters happen' and to 'get hand wash on the plane'.

"All the crew were wearing face-masks, wandering around paranoid. All of a sudden the crew started massively freaking out, I got wind of it because I was in the front of the plane.

"I could see what they were chatting about in the galley. One crew member said, 'F****** hell, there's two passengers that have got it'. Another said, 'Oh sh**, here we go.'"

Passengers had to fill a form confirming they were not suffering flu-like symptoms before being allowed off the plane.

A spokesman for BA told the site that the safety of its customers and crew is of paramount importance.

They said their staff are trained to deal with medical situations and apologised to customers for the delay.

A man was also reportedly seen being taken away from York's Staycity Hotel by masked paramedics last night.

On Thursday, Catherine Calderwood, Scotland's chief medical officer, said it was a case of when not if the UK recorded its first case of the virus.

It is believed the man, thought to be Chinese, fell ill while staying at the hotel and was picked up by an ambulance - along with two other guests - at around 8pm.

His hotel room has been cordoned off and the building is set to undergo a deep clean, the Yorkshire Post reports.

A spokesman for the hotel said the paramedics were concerned the patient had been infected by coronavirus, according to Mail Online.