Not advisable to evacuate Pakistanis from China: PM’s aide 
 Not advisable to evacuate Pakistanis from China: PM’s aide

Ag APP *** Sabah
ISLAMABAD: Special Assistant to the Prime Minister on Health, Dr Zafar Mirza, said on Thursday it was not advisable to evacuate Pakistanis from China, adding the government will demonstrate responsible behaviour and not become a part in spreading the virus.
Addressing a press conference along with Foreign Office spokesperson Aisha Farooqui here, Dr Mirza said: “We don’t want to take any emotional decision which will cause this virus to spread further. It is also our responsibility to ensure that our citizens in Wuhan are being properly taken care of and see to it whether they are being provided with food or items of daily use or not.”
Dr Mirza said the Pakistani embassy in China was providing the government with information about its citizens in Wuhan. He said it was in the “larger interest of the region” to not evacuate Pakistanis in Wuhan.
“This [decision not to evacuate Pakistanis] is what the World Health Organisation (WHO) is saying and this is what China’s policy is,” he said. “This is also our policy.”
The special assistant said there was no any recommendation issued by the WHO to its member countries to evacuate its citizens from China, adding the WHO had appreciated the efforts of Chinese government in handling the novel coronavirus disease.
He said there was a wide spread concern over novel coronavirus disease and in this regard the WHO called two emergency meetings to review the situation in China and elsewhere. He said the WHO also released certain instructions and advised its member states on the disease.
“Pakistan is strictly following these instructions which means we have to deal with the possibility of spread of this disease as a national emergency and all those measures must be taken as the national emergency required.”
Dr Mirza said the government had decided to start awareness drive on electronic media to create awareness among the masses, adding standard information material was also being published in English, Urdu and Chinese languages. He said four Pakistani students who were infected with coronavirus in China were in good state of health and were being taken care of very well. However, until now there was no reported case in Pakistan, he added.
He said the government had established national emergency operation centre and activated national task force on international health regulations, besides creating national coronavirus emergency core committee in which all ministries and sectors were represented.
He said the SOPs had been developed to manage the inflow of the international passengers and to examine some signs and symptoms in order to put those suspected people under observation, besides isolating them in designated healthcare facilities and screening at ports of entry. He said the government had reinforced its facilities for screening at the ports of entry.
“We are on high alert and have taken measures we needed to take as a responsible government and there are clear instructions from the Prime Minister in this regard,” he said, adding the emergency operation cell at the Federal Health Ministry was monitoring the situation round the clock.
“Let me assure the people that the government is closely monitoring the situation and all necessary measures are being taken to screen all travellers from China and providing hospital care, where required.”
He said thermo scanners and thermo guns had been provided to the well trained health staff at airports in Karachi, Lahore and Islamabad to screen all passengers. He asked the media to avoid irresponsible reporting based on assumptions and rumours.
The special assistant said there was absolutely no cause for panic or alarm. “People need to take simple precautions for prevention against common flu like covering the nose and mouth while coughing and sneezing, frequent hand washing for 20 seconds with soap, avoiding close contact with sick people, animals, touching eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands,” he added.
He advised all Pakistanis staying in China to register themselves with the Pakistan embassy in Beijing through its website to have updated information and instructions.
Speaking on the occasion, Foreign Office spokesperson Aisha Farooqui said the Pakistan government was monitoring the evolving situation in China and was in close contact with the relevant authorities in order to ensure safety of Pakistani students in Wuhan
She said the main focus of Pakistani embassy in China was to provide best possible assistance to Pakistani citizens and students, adding the Pakistan Embassy was creating awareness in Pakistani community through its website and video messages of Pakistani ambassador to prevent people from contracting this virus.
She said Pakistan was in constant touch with the Chinese authorities to ensure safety of its nationals and the contact persons of Pakistan Embassy were available at hotline for any assistance.
Separately, Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi said on Thursday the Chinese officials were taking adequate measures to control the coronavirus epidemic.
In a statement, the foreign minister said the people and government of Pakistan were standing with China in this difficult hour. “China will undoubtedly overcome this challenge,” he stressed. Qureshi remarked that the top leadership of China was monitoring the efforts being made to control the epidemic. The international community has also praised the Chinese efforts to control the virus, he said.
He thanked Beijing for helping Pakistani citizens residing in China, adding: “Pakistan is ready to extend every possible support to its neighbour.”