Murkowski asks why should Bolton not testify to Senate 
 Sen. Lisa Murkowski Lisa Ann MurkowskiGOP predicts Roberts won't cast tie-breaking vote on witnesses Collins, Murkowski, Romney get first GOP impeachment question GOP senators believe they have the votes to block witnesses MORE (R-Alaska) asked Thursday why John Bolton John BoltonSenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session Democratic senator to force vote requiring Roberts to weigh in on witnesses Overnight Defense: Bolton, GOP senators see close ties challenged | Republicans fume over Dem maneuver on Iran bills |Trump criticizes Democrats over war powers vote MORE should not be called to testify before the Senate trial into President Trump Donald John TrumpDemocrats outraged over White House lawyer's claim that some foreign involvement in elections is acceptable Senators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session White House announces task force to monitor coronavirus MORE, noting that conflicting accounts about Trump’s decision to delay U.S. aid to Ukraine “weighs in favor” of why additional witnesses should be heard.

Murkowski, who is known for her independent streak, is considered a swing vote on the need to call in witnesses like former national security adviser John Bolton. And her question Thursday night could signal where the senator might stand on a roaring witness debate.

“This dispute about material facts weighs in favor of calling additional witnesses with direct knowledge. Why should this body not call Ambassador Bolton,” Murkowski asked in a question poised to the White House defense team.

Murkowski noted in her question that U.S. Ambassador to the E.U. Gordon Sondland Gordon SondlandLatest Bolton revelations are no game-changer Trump legal team begins second day of arguments under Bolton furor House impeachment manager: 'Evidence against the president is overwhelming' MORE and Sen. Ron Johnson Ronald (Ron) Harold JohnsonOvernight Energy: Environment takes center stage in House infrastructure plan | Iowans push 2020 candidates on climate | Sanders offers bill on 'forever chemicals' House committee advances bill that would give DHS cyber agency subpoena power Perry delegation talking points stressed pushing Ukraine to deal with 'corruption' MORE (R-Wis.), an ally of the president, have stated that Trump did not withhold $391 million in aid to Ukraine as leverage to press Kyiv to open politically beneficial investigations, including one into a 2020 political rival.

She then notes that a New York Times report of Bolton’s unpublished manuscript says otherwise, noting that the report suggests the former Trump official was referring to a direct conversation the president about the aid.

The matter is expected to be voted on on Friday. Democrats will need four Republicans to side in favor of calling in witnesses -- that is, if no Democrats defect from the party-line.