WHO Declares Coronavirus Global Health Emergency 
 Anchor: As more in South Korea and around the world are being diagnosed with the new coronavirus, the World Health Organization has officially declared the outbreak a public health emergency. The organization says this more to help countries with weaker health systems rather than to pass judgement on China.

Kim Bum-soo has more. 


Report: The World Health Organization(WHO) has declared the coronavirus outbreak a "public health emergency of international concern," citing the risk that the virus could expand to other countries beyond China. 


[Sound bite: WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus (English)]

"I'm declaring a public health emergency of international concern over the global outbreak of novel coronavirus. The main reason for this declaration is not because of what is happening in China but because of what is happening in other countries " 


WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus announced the declaration in a news conference on Thursday in Geneva, Switzerland, after an emergency meeting.


While stressing that the emergency declaration is "not a vote of no confidence" in China, the WHO chief said that the goal of the declaration was to provide support for countries with weaker health systems.


[Sound bite: WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus (English)]

"There is no reason for measures that unnecessarily interfere with international travel and trade, so WHO doesn't recommend limiting transfer, trade and movement."


The WHO's Emergency Committee said evidence suggests that restricting the movement of people and goods during emergencies may interrupt needed aid and technical support, and hurt the economies of struggling countries. 
 

[Sound bite: WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus (English)] 

"In total, there are now seven-thousand-834 confirmed cases including seven-thousand-736 in China, representing almost 99 percent of all reported cases worldwide. 170 people have lost their lives to this outbreak, all of them in China, we must remember that these are people not numbers " 


The virus has reached 18 other countries, including South Korea, Japan, and Vietnam, as well as the United States.  


The UN health agency defines an international emergency as an “extraordinary event” that constitutes a risk to other countries and requires a coordinated international response.  


It's the sixth time the WHO declared an emergency, with past examples including the Ebola outbreak in 2019 in the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Zika virus in 2016.

Kim Bum-soo, KBS World Radio News.