Coronavirus breakout: Not appropriate to lift Pakistanis from China, says Dr Zafar Mirza 
 Coronavirus breakout: Not appropriate to lift Pakistanis from China, says Dr Zafar Mirza

Ag Agencies
ISLAMABAD/WUHAN/CIVITAVECCHIA, Italy: Novel Coronavirus has the potential to engulf the entire world like wildfire. As such, acting in the best interest of Pakistan, the region, and the world, the government will not demand repatriation of Pakistani citizens and students living in China.
Prime Minister’s Special Assistant on Health Dr Zafar Mirza delivered the above policy statement at a press conference here on Thursday. Flanked by Foreign Office spokesperson Ayesha Farooqi, the SAPM praised the Chinese government’s policies from a public health perspective, and explained that being a responsible neighbour, it is obligatory for Pakistan to respect and comply with those policies and to fulfil its international commitments by adhering to guidelines issued by the World Health Organization (WHO), which has advised member countries not to insist on evacuation of citizens.
“We cannot contribute to further exportation of the virus by acting in haste or by being driven by emotions. It is the responsibility of the state to safeguard public health. We are a responsible government that cares for its people and will take all appropriate measures at the right time. The entire world is praising China’s efforts to restrict the virus as it struggles to contain the outbreak. Pakistan stands by the government of China and will not make any demands that can enable proliferation of the virus,” remarked Dr Zafar.
Responding to a query, he said, the United States has gotten some of its diplomats evacuated on the basis of a clause enshrined in the Vienna Condition. Other than that, China has not approved any evacuation plan for foreign citizens so far.
Sharing latest data, Dr Zafar said, 7,831 people have been diagnosed with Novel Coronavirus so far, with 170 deaths—all of them in China—and virus exportation to 15 countries. “There is no confirmed case in Pakistan so far. The four Wuhan-based Pakistani students who have been diagnosed with the infection are showing improvement,” Dr Zafar maintained, adding, “We are just as concerned about Pakistanis in Wuhan and other parts of China, as their families and relatives.”
Adding to the discourse, Ayesha Farooqi said, Pakistan Embassy and Consulates in China have been playing a dynamic role ever since the start of the outbreak. She clarified that the Foreign Office is concerned about and focusing on all Pakistanis in China, and not just families of diplomats and Naval Officers stationed in Wuhan and other cities. “Hotline numbers have been disseminated on social media. “The ambassador has also recorded a video message for Pakistanis, advising them how to protect themselves. The Foreign Office has posted information on its website; all our embassies are linked to our website, and as such, have access to all relevant information,” she concluded.
Pakistan says that it is ready to extend every possible assistance to China to help with the aftermath of Coronavirus and is thankful for extending best possible assistance to Pakistani nationals in China.
“As per current available information, no country has evacuated its citizen from China. However, some countries have talked to the Chinese authorities in this regard”, spokesperson at the Foreign Office told the weekly media briefing.
Pakistan appears to be taking no chance and the spokesperson announced that the Gilgit-Baltistan government has decided to reschedule its opening of the Khunjrab border. “Now it will be opened in April”, she said.
When asked about Pakistani passengers who are stuck at Unrumqi Airport and unable to return home, the spokesperson responded, “Regarding flight delay in Urumqi, we have received information that flight has been delayed. We have contacted Chinese authorities and requested for the accommodation and facilitation of Pakistani citizens until the next flight.”
Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi while speaking from Kenya where he is attending a Trade Conference said that the government, people and leadership of Pakistan stand by the Chinese people and leadership in their valiant efforts to bring the coronavirus under control and support the measures taken by China in that regard.
Meanwhile, at least 15 countries have confirmed infections, with India reporting its first case on Thursday. Russia said it was closing its far eastern border with China over the outbreak.
Tokyo on Thursday reported that three people who were aboard the first evacuation flight had tested positive for the virus after landing back home.
Major airlines that have suspended or reduced service to China include British Airways, German flag carrier Lufthansa, American Airlines, KLM, and United.