Josie Canseco dons pink bikini aboard 82ft yacht in Miami 
 Next Management Model Josie Canseco showcased her slim 5ft9in figure in a hot-pink bikini while vacationing in Miami on Thursday.

The half-Cuban 23-year-old - who relies on stylist Andrew Gelwicks - sunned her self in a tiny two-piece consisting of a bandeau top and high-waisted Brazilian-cut bottoms.

Josie just so happened to be cruising along in South Beach mogul David Grutman's luxurious 82ft yacht affectionately called 'GROOT.'

Canseco - who boasts 621K Instagram/Twitter followers - Insta-storied her view from inside the Grutman vessel littered with plates of cheese and fruit where the 45-year-old restaurateur was glued to his phone.

The Florida-born blonde also Insta-storied plenty of sun-kissed selfies as she enjoyed living large with the unofficial 'Mayor of Miami' and his entourage.

Josie even sported a white baseball hat emblazoned with GROOT, which was prominently featured in the Will Smith and Martin Lawrence newly-released three-quel Bad Boys for Life.

Canseco showcased her pert derrière in one selfie captioned: 'Much needed!'

Career-wise, the Blackbear video vixen has modeled for Victoria's Secret, Frankies Bikinis, and Playboy.

Josie recently made headlines for ending her two-month fling with The Hills: New Beginnings star Brody Jenner in late October.

Missing from Canseco's side on the boat was her rumored boyfriend since January 15 - controversial YouTuber Logan Paul - whom she donned matching red Jake Paul jackets with on Wednesday.

The SummerBreak 2 alum and the Ohio-born 24-year-old are in Florida to attend the boxing match between his 23-year-old brother Jake Paul and AnEsonGib at the nearby Meridian.

On Tuesday, the Flat Earth filmmaker posed shirtless with models Katie Bell, Julia Rose, Riley Reid, and Daisy Keech for a bizarre snap captioned: 'F**k the corona virus.'

If Josie's name sounds familiar it's because she's the nepotistically-privileged daughter of two-time World Series champ Jose Canseco and model Jessica Sekely.

The 55-year-old retired basbeball pro last made headlines in March when he accused his former teammate Alex Rodriguez of cheating on his pop star fiancée Jennifer Lopez with his ex-wife Jessica as well as Playboy model Zoe Gregory.

'Alex stop being stop being a piece of s*** stop cheating on Jennifer Lopez,' Jose tweeted at the time.