Carter: Trump plan 'undercuts prospects for a just peace between Israelis and Palestinians' 
 Former President Jimmy Carter Jimmy CarterJames Taylor to perform at awards ceremony for Ruth Bader Ginsburg this week Some considerations for the US-Iran political interchange How Jim Lehrer helped launch my political career MORE criticized President Trump Donald John TrumpDemocrats outraged over White House lawyer's claim that some foreign involvement in elections is acceptable Senators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session White House announces task force to monitor coronavirus MORE’s Middle East plan Thursday saying it “undercuts prospects for a just peace between Israelis and Palestinians.”

Carter, in a released statement, said the plan breaks the two-state solution decided with the 1967 borders within a series of United Nations Security Council resolutions. The former president claimed the proposal would provide “fragmented statehood” to Palestine.

"The new U.S. plan undercuts prospects for a just peace between Israelis and Palestinians. If implemented, the plan will doom the only viable solution to this long-running conflict, the two-state solution," Carter said.

The former president also asserts that the proposal violates international law regarding self-determination, taking land by force and annexation of occupied territories. He took issue with the uncertainty of the future of parts of the West Bank and the phrasing determining Israel as “the nation state of the Jewish people,” saying it “encourages the denial of equal rights to Palestinians.”

Trump presented his plan as a “realistic two-state solution,” but the Palestinians rejected it. The plan gives Israel the opportunity to annex settlements in the West Bank after Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu Benjamin (Bibi) NetanyahuMORE has called for.

The plan would give Palestinians limited sovereignty after a transition period and allow them to establish its capital on the eastern side of the separation barrier in Jerusalem.

Carter has been a big proponent for Palestinian rights and a two-state solution, including when he organized the Camp David Accords with Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin.