SK Hynix posts lowest profit in 7 years, warns of growing uncertainties- Technology News, Firstpost 
 SEOUL (Reuters) - South Korea's SK Hynix <000660.KS>, a chip supplier to Apple Inc and Huawei, on Friday warned of growing uncertainties, after posting its lowest quarterly profit in seven years, hit by a protracted industry downturn.

The tech company said it would be cautious about investments despite improvements in demand, joining its bigger rival Samsung Electronics in offering a guarded outlook amid trade tensions between the United States and China and the new coronavirus outbreak in China.

SK Hynix, the world's No. 2 memory chip maker after Samsung Electronics <005930.KS>, said its operating profit slumped 95% to 236 billion won (154 million pounds) in the December quarter, far below a 433 billion won average forecast drawn from 19 analysts, according to Refinitiv data.

That is the lowest quarterly operating profit since the fourth quarter of 2012, and well below 4.4 trillion won a year earlier.

The company also swung to a net loss of 118 billion won from a net profit of 3.4 trillion won, reflecting a decline in investment valuations of Japanese peer Kioxia.

"While SK Hynix sees the recent improvement in demand flows positively, the company will carry out more prudent production and investment strategies, as complexities and uncertainties still remain much higher than in the past," it said in a statement.

Memory chip makers have suffered a double-whammy with the U.S.-China trade war hitting demand from clients such as smartphone makers and data centres, exacerbating oversupply after capacity increases during a boom in 2017.

Despite the industry slowdown, chip shares rallied last year, fuelled by hopes that memory chip prices are bottoming out as trade tensions eased and tentative signs sprouted that demand is recovering from data centres and smartphones.

This story has not been edited by Firstpost staff and is generated by auto-feed.

Welcome to Tech2 Innovate, India’s most definitive youth festival celebrating innovation is being held at GMR Grounds, Aerocity Phase 2, on 14th and 15th February 2020. Come and experience an amalgamation of tech, gadgets, automobiles, music, technology, and pop culture along with the who’s who of the online world. Book your tickets now.