Local Digest: D.C. man dies nearly week after shooting 
 Man dies nearly a week after shooting in NE

A 36-year-old man died nearly a week after he was shot in Northeast Washington. Police said a man has been arrested in connection with the death.

D.C. police said Jimmy Beynum, who lived in Northeast, was shot Jan. 23 in the 1600 block of F Street NE in the Kingman Park neighborhood.


The shooting happened at about 10:15 a.m. When police arrived, they found Beynum suffering from several gunshot wounds. He was taken to a hospital with life-threatening injuries and died Wednesday.

The same day, police arrested Stanley Brown, 27, of Northeast and charged him with first-degree murder while armed.

Woman found dead in home in Lanham

A woman was found dead inside a home in Lanham, and police said they are investigating the incident as a homicide.

The incident unfolded Wednesday at a home in the 6900 block of Lamont Drive just off the Capital Beltway, according to Prince George’s County police. The woman’s name was not immediately released, pending the notification of her family.

The woman was found inside the home, and her body showed signs of trauma, police said. She was pronounced dead at the scene.

Patient tests negative for coronavirus

The first person tested in Maryland for the novel coronavirus that has swept through China does not have the virus, state health officials said.

The person, who was not identified but was in isolation at home, sparked days of concern about the new virus.

State and local health departments in Maryland have been fielding calls in the past week, but only one person has met the criteria to be tested, which includes respiratory symptoms and travel to China.

Towson University distributed a message around campus Thursday morning that said a professor would not return to classes for the time being “out of an abundance of caution” while a family member is tested for the coronavirus.

That family member was the person who tested negative in Maryland, the university said.