Italy confirms first 2 cases of coronavirus: prime minister 
 By Staff				Reuters
			

			Posted January 30, 2020 5:47 pm

						Updated January 30, 2020 6:12 pm

					

	


			
			
		
				
					
							
		
					
					

	
		Smaller font
		Descrease article font size
		-A

	
	
		Larger font
		Increase article font size
		A+

	



					
					
								
							

				


				
				
					Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said on Thursday that two cases of coronavirus had been confirmed in Italy, the first in the country since the outbreak in Wuhan, China.
Two Chinese tourists who were visiting Italy had contracted the virus, Conte said. Checks were being made to reconstruct the path of the two people to avoid further risks.
The head of the national institute for infectious diseases said their condition was good.
“We have two confirmed cases of coronavirus in Italy,” the prime minister told a news conference, adding that the government had decided to close air traffic to and from China.
	
		
		
	“As far as we know we are the first country in the EU to adopt such a measure” Conte said.
									Story continues below advertisement

			
			
			
			


					
		
	A cabinet meeting has been called on Friday to decide further measures, Conte said.
On Thursday, the World Health Organization declared that the coronavirus outbreak that has killed 170 people in China constituted a global public health emergency.
							    	
				
					
						
												
							
																
								
							
							
																	3:09
																									Coronavirus outbreak: Trudeau calls for Canadians to come together in response to ‘unreasonable fears’ on internet
															
						
											
				

			

					
				Coronavirus outbreak: Trudeau calls for Canadians to come together in response to ‘unreasonable fears’ on internet
			
							
Both Chinese tourists were in an isolation unit of Rome’s Spallanzani institute, a center specializing in infectious diseases and viruses.
“The two people have been under observation in the hospital since yesterday … The diagnosis was certified by the National Institute of Health,” said Giuseppe Ippolito, scientific director of the Spallanzani institute.