Coronavirus outbreak: NHS CEO stresses the NHS has enough resources 
 On Newsnight, Hopson was talking to Emma Barnett when he spoke of how the NHS would be able to deal with such a situation. He said via the BBC: “Similar to outbreaks of winter flu, the NHS has got very well worked through plans, we have very well worked through protocols.

“We set up special command and control approaches.
“The NHS tends to deal with crises like these really well."
People were quick to comment on social media.
One said: “Yeah right. The NHS great reputation for dealing with a crisis. How about averting the crisis in the first place.”

Another said: “We are not running at 97% capacity. We have been having up to 110 more inpatients in my hospital than we have beds. That’s 116% full. This is not uncommon. It is paralysing.”
The CEO also spoke on the crisis of a lack of beds for patients.
Following a probe into the NHS, the BBC’s Newsnight reported that hospital staff have been told to be “risky” in discharging patients, as to elevate the issue of lack of bed space.
Hobson responded: "The NHS has just issued its planning guidance for next year today.
READ MORE: Brexit news: Are pharmacists worried about medicine shortages?

It says we need to try and ensure we have 4,000 extra beds in the NHS on top of about the 100,000 we have"
One commentator replied: “Good luck with that. Where are you going to get the staff to care for the patients in the beds?
“We haven’t been training enough. We’re short of nursing and allied health professionals.”
It comes as five people in Scotland were being tested for suspected coronavirus after they travelled to the UK from Wuhan, a central Chinese city where the outbreak began.
DON'T MISS:
Universal Credit: NHS free prescription box changes - eligibility [INSIGHT]
Brexit rules for EU citizens: Will you have to pay to use the NHS? [REVEALED]
Brexit impact: What does Brexit mean for the NHS? [INSIGHT]

Four people are being tested - and a fifth is being done so on a “precautionary basis”.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson has attempted to reassure the public, saying these cases for coronavirus are yet to be confirmed.
When quizzed on the individuals in Scotland, Mr Johnson’s spokesman said: "These measures are purely precautionary and nobody has tested positive."

A statement from Scotland's Department of Health and Social Care said: "We have been carefully monitoring the situation in Wuhan for some time and are ready to put in place proportionate, precautionary measures.
"From today, enhanced monitoring will be in place from all direct flights from Wuhan to the UK.

"The enhanced monitoring package includes a number of measures that will help to provide advice to travellers if they feel unwell.
"For those travelling back directly from Wuhan, this includes a port health team who will meet each direct flight aircraft to provide advice and support to those that feel unwell."