'Please Don’t Use Coronavirus As An Excuse To Be Racist' 
 As the coronavirus dominates the news and is declared a Global Health Emergency by WHO, Yen-Rong Wong is asking Aussies not to use it as an excuse to be racist. 
I was eight during the SARS outbreak, and the only thing I remember about it was that it was scary, people around the world were getting sick, some were dying, and a lot of adults were very worried. But I never really feared for my safety or my family’s safety, and I don’t remember any overt racism during this time.
Eighteen years on, and 2019-nCoV, more commonly known as coronavirus, has hit the world. Coronavirus is thought to be more dangerous than SARS. But that’s not all that’s different about these two outbreaks.
In 2002, Twitter hadn’t even been created, smart phones weren’t really a thing, and the phrase 'social media' hadn’t yet entered the general vernacular. Nowadays, more people than ever have access to Twitter, wechat, Facebook, WhatsApp - all of which can be used as vehicles for the spreading of disinformation and racism.
In the past few weeks, I’ve overheard conversations in the lifts that included ‘jokes’ about “avoiding Asians”, read about a fake media release from the Department of Health advising Brisbane residents to stay away from suburbs like Sunnybank and Eight Mile Plains that are mainly populated by "Asian" or Chinese people. On top of this, scores of people have blamed the virus on Chinese people "eating wild animals”, or bat soup.
There are definitely valid criticisms of the way the Chinese government has handled the initial outbreak, but this does not give the general public free rein to demonise an entire race.
Never mind the Chinese government and those sympathetic to their cause is different to the average Chinese person. Never mind someone of the Chinese diaspora is very different to someone who has grown up in China. Never mind the fact that many white people have difficulty distinguishing a person of East Asian descent from another.
Never mind that the majority of the Chinese population just wanted to spend one of the most important cultural holidays in their calendar with their families. Imagine if a new strain of influenza hit a Western country during Christmas. I bet the response from the global community would be vastly different to what’s happening now.
In the past couple of years, I’ve become instantly on edge whenever anything negative about 'the Chinese' pops up in the news, because I know it will inevitably lead to a surge in xenophobic rhetoric.
It doesn’t matter that I’m Malaysian-Chinese, or that I’m born and bred in Australia - those nuances are a bit too much for your friendly neighbourhood racist. I look Asian-enough, Chinese-enough, so that’s enough for me to cop a wallop of racism.
Casual racism isn’t anything new, but this level of targeted, aggressive racism towards my community is - and this week, it came to a critical mass for me. I tweeted my frustration about this overwhelming wave of Sinophobia and blatant racism, saying:
Re: racism and #coronavirus - This is the first time I’ve ever felt physically unsafe in Australia because of my race. I thought we were over this shit but obviously not.
I haven’t been physically or directly threatened, but overt threats don’t have to be made for someone to feel unsafe. I feel physically unsafe because I know this outbreak has emboldened racists - and the racists themselves know that they can get away with it, too, if they yell “freedom of speech” and “this is a democracy, isn’t it?”
Did you know the number of women experiencing workplace harassment in Australia? Plus, this is a woman’s best weapon against harassment. 
But I’d prefer overt racism over jokes and casual racism. Casual racism is hard to root out, and can even sometimes be hard to spot when it’s happening. It hides behind accusations of 'you’re taking it the wrong way', or that you’re 'too sensitive and you can’t take a joke'. Every time I hear these casual jokes from people at the office or the shops I feel a little less safe; it’s almost like if no white lives are at stake, then no real lives are at stake.
And so, most of all, I feel physically unsafe because what’s unfolded in the past few weeks has highlighted the depth of contempt and the level of dehumanisation to which some white people are willing to subject those they consider Other.
I know First Nations people have endured this for centuries and continue to do so - this doesn’t negate their pain and suffering, or that of other minorities. But I - naively - thought white Australia had finished with their racism against ‘Asians’, even though accepting this also means acknowledging that white Australia sees ‘Asians’ as having assimilated. That model minority myth is one hell of an idea; recent events have simply emphasised its facile nature, and the way in which it always places whiteness above all else.
Want to go steady? Sign up to our whimn.com.au newsletter for more stories like this. 
For now, I fear for children of Chinese heritage who have returned to school or will return to school in the next week. I’ve already heard from parents who have had kids come home from school talking about the 'Chinaman disease'. I’m afraid racist attacks - physical and verbal - in schools will be on the rise, and I’m afraid white school officials may not deal with these situations with the problem care they deserve.
As I write this, I’m also keeping an eye on the news that the government will fly Australians who are currently stuck in Wuhan to Christmas Island for the fantastic price of $1000 for two weeks of quarantine, after which they will be dropped in Perth and made to pay their own way home. Unsurprisingly, there are many who aren’t so keen to take up this opportunity, and it seems like this ‘offer’ is another way to financially and emotionally punish Chinese Australians for the audacity of being not-white. I’m aware this evacuation plan is the same for everyone regardless of race, but I don’t think this would even be the plan if this had happened in a Western country.
I’m usually an optimist, and there’s still a glimmer of hope left in me - that we can be better than this, maybe, eventually. But as I said on Tuesday, I thought we were over this shit. Clearly, we very much are not.