Gadvasu prof sheds light on coronavirus | Ludhiana News - Times of India 
 Ludhiana: The new virus, reported recently from Wuhan city of China, has captured worldwide attention. This new virus, which is temporarily named 2019-nCoV is a coronavirus, which is a family of viruses that include common cold, and viruses such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS).In humans, this virus causes respiratory infections which are typically mild, including common cold, but rarer forms like SARS and MERS can be lethal. In cows, pigs, dogs and cats, they may cause diarrhoea, while in chickens, it can cause an upper respiratory disease. This information was shared by Dr Kirti Dua, in-charge, Centre for Wildlife Studies, and professor Veterinary Medicine, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Gadvasu), Ludhiana.He revealed that it appeared the animal-based corona virus jumped into humans and caused severe illness only on rare occasions. But when they jump, they may mutate during their multiplication. “In the present scenario, it is suspected that wildlife food trade in Wuhan city — which includes bats, civets, porcupines, turtles, bamboo rats, and many kids of birds — played a significant role in the virus outbreak,” he informed, and added that human-to-human spread had been confirmed, but how easily or sustainably this virus was spreading remains unknown, and there were no vaccines or anti-viral drugs approved for prevention or treatment.World Health Organisation’s standard recommendations for the general public to reduce exposure to and transmission of a range of illnesses also include hand and respiratory hygiene, besides safe food practices. There are some remedies for safety purposes, like frequently cleaning hands by using alcohol-based handrub or soap and water. When coughing and sneezing, cover mouth and nose with a flexed elbow or tissue, then throw the tissue away immediately and wash hands.Avoid close contact with anyone who has fever and cough. If you have fever, cough, and difficulty breathing, seek medical care early and share previous travel history with your healthcare provider. While visiting live markets in areas currently experiencing cases of novel coronavirus, avoid direct unprotected contact with live animals and surfaces in contact with animals. The consumption of raw or undercooked animal products should be avoided. Raw meat, milk, or animal organs should be handled with care to avoid cross-contamination with uncooked foods, as per good food safety practices.