Growing calls for Australia to ban flights from China 
 A workers union warns airport security staff may walk off the job if Australia’s airports don’t do more to protect them from the deadly coronavirus. 
The United Workers Union has accused airports of telling staff, including security officers, they can’t wear protective gear at work as it would make passengers feel “uncomfortable”.
It comes amid growing calls for Australia to ban flights from China in the wake of the coronavirus global emergency, which the Federal Government says it has no plans to do.
RELATED: Follow our coronavirus coverage
“Airport staff, including officers stationed at security checkpoints and facility attendants, may have no choice but to stop work, after being told they are not allowed to wear protective gear because this will make customers feel ‘uncomfortable’,” the United Workers Union said in a statement.
“In some cases, workers who have made a request to wear a mask have been threatened with disciplinary action.
“Access to basic hygiene, such as soap, has also been identified by security workers at Sydney Airport as a major cause for concern.”
Coronavirus, which was declared a global health emergency by the World Health Organisation overnight, has claimed more than 170 lives and infected more than 8000 people worldwide.
There have been nine confirmed cases in Australia, including two people who were on a flight from Melbourne to the Gold Coast with 170 others after having recently been on a group tour in virus epicentre Wuhan.
Flights continue to operate between mainland China and Australian cities across several airlines, including Qantas.
This is despite many of the world’s major airlines suspending flights to the Chinese mainland, and growing calls for Australia to ban planes from China to stop the spread of the killer virus.
No flights operate between Wuhan and Australia.
“It is appalling and dangerous that the safety of airport staff is not being prioritised because employers are worried about spooking customers,” United Workers Union spokesperson for Property Services Damien Davie said.
“The coronavirus is a life-threatening disease … To threaten disciplinary action for a request to wear a mask is not only irresponsible but immoral.
“Airport staff are putting themselves at risk to make sure our airports can stay open. It’s public knowledge that a coronavirus patient has travelled on a domestic flight in Australia. Employers need to recognise this by providing all staff with the protective gear they need to do their jobs with minimal risk to their wellbeing.
“If the health and safety needs of these workers are not met, United Workers Union will direct members to cease work even if it means grounding every flight in the country. We will not stand by while our members are exposed to this hideous virus due to penny pinching by airport security operators.”
‘ALL FLIGHTS MUST BE SUSPENDED’
The warning comes as the Transport Workers Union (TWU), which represents airline and airport workers, demanded the Federal Government ban flights from China over concerns about the virus spreading.
“Suspending flights originating from China may appear to be a drastic measure. But the consequence of inaction could be even more drastic,” TWU national secretary Michael Kaine said.
“Air travel is the most efficient means for the virus to spread, and already has been integral to the spread of the virus to at least 18 other countries around the world.
“Until more information about this form of coronavirus is known, then the precautionary principle must apply.
“That means taking all possible steps to contain the virus and protect the Australian community.
“All flights from China must be suspended until this disease is under control.”
The TWU said it has asked airlines, airports and aviation companies about what procedures were in place to protect staff and the travelling public.
However Australia’s Chief Medical Officer said the World Health Organisation — which has declared the virus a global emergency — “strongly recommended” against banning flights from China.
Professor Brendan Murphy said a flight ban while China’s borders stayed open wouldn’t stop people from China travelling to Australia, News Corp Australia reports.
“Unless you lockdown exit from the country, banning flights, direct flights, doesn’t stop people coming from China,” he said.
“They could come from all sorts of other ports and at least we know who is coming from China and we can meet and do very intensive border measures for those flights.”
Prof Murphy said many airlines that had suspended flights from China had done so for “commercial reasons”.
Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton said this morning the Federal Government had no plans to ban flights from China.
“We are not taking flights from Wuhan. And if we need to take further steps beyond that we will,” he told Today.
He said Australia was in a different position to Hong Kong, which has taken the extraordinary step of restricting some of its border crossings with mainland China to stop the spread of the coronavirus.
“(They) share a land border and have significant people transfers every day, so they’re in a very different situation than an island nation like ours,” Mr Dutton said.
“I think we have looked at all of those steps. We have contingencies ready to go if we make additional decisions about what we should do to provide further protections, and that’s what we have done so far and what we will keep doing.
“We have to rely on the medical advice. It’s just not what is happening internationally, but we are recognised as one of the most advanced countries in the world in terms of our preparedness to respond to a crisis like this.”
Qantas said it had no plans to change its flight routes into and out of mainland China.
Virgin Australia, which does not fly to mainland China but has daily flights between Sydney and Melbourne and Hong Kong, said it was closely following advice from Australian medical authorities and the World Health Organisation about precautions to minimise risks from the virus, AAP reported.
British Airways has suspended all flights to mainland China, along with American Airlines, United Airlines, Lufthansa, Austrian Airlines and Swiss, which have done the same.
Other airlines either cancelling or scaling back services include Air Canada, Air Seoul, Air India, Asiana Airlines, Finnair, IndiGo, Jetset Asia and Lion Air.
Hong Kong-based airline Cathay Pacific said it would keep flying to mainland China but slash capacity by half.
The airline said it had also stopped handing out hot towels, blankets and magazines on flights to and from mainland China until further notice.