Coronavirus: 'Empty seats' on plane taking 83 Britons from Wuhan 
 A chartered flight carrying 83 Britons has left Wuhan following the coronavirus outbreak - considerably fewer than the 150 passengers that the British government were anticipating. The Foreign Office has confirmed that a total of 110 passengers, including 27 foreign nationals, are on board the plane, which left the Chinese city several hours later than anticipated. A photograph from inside the aircraft appeared to show several empty seats ahead of take-off, suggesting that dozens of Britons were unable to make the flight. Joe Armitt, who is on the flight, told Sky News that not many people got on the flight because they weren't given enough notice to get to the airline - and said the "plane is very empty". The plane is expected to land at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire at 1pm today - and from here, the aircraft will travel to Spain. In a statement, Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said: "It's welcome news that our evacuation flight has now left Wuhan. "We know how distressing the situation has been for those waiting to leave. We have been working round the clock to clear the way for a safe departure. The welfare of those trapped and public safety have been our overriding priorities." Sky News understands that the Britons on board will be quarantined for two weeks in an NHS facility on the Wirral. It is expected they will be kept in isolation at Arrowe Park Hospital in Upton and then monitored. The outbreak was declared a global public health emergency on Thursday night. Four chief medical officers in the UK have raised the coronavirus risk level from low to moderate - however, they stressed they "do not think the risk to individuals in the UK has changed". Other details that Sky News understands include: Three military medics and Public Health England (PHE) officials are on board the plane, but it will be crewed by civiliansThe medics will have a script to read out to people letting them know to speak up if they feel unwellThere will be an isolation area on boardPassengers will have to agree to whatever treatment is recommended by expertsBritish Airways has cancelled all flights to mainland China until the end of February, while some other airlines have suspended flights.More follows...