Indian companies scrap, postpone travel plans to China 
 NEW DELHI: Indian companies are curtailing, deferring and even scrapping travel plans to and from China to minimise exposure to the coronavirus outbreak. Coca-Cola has suspended travel to mainland China for employees, including those in India, until the end of March. Wipro, Infosys, Ericsson, Titan, Tata Consultancy Services, Hindustan Unilever and the Vedanta Group are restricting and postponing trips to and from China. Companies are watching the situation and following travel advisories issued by the government. Many airlines have curtailed or suspended flights to mainland China, where the coronavirus outbreak has spread to all regions. The death toll in China has risen to 170 and more than 7,700 cases were reported in the country. “We have not banned travel to China as of now but we are advising our employees to defer their travel to China and Hong Kong as much as possible,” said Raj Narayan, senior VP at Titan Industries Ltd. TCS is encouraging its employees in China to work from home and has halted all non-essential travel. 73789351 “TCS business continuity plan is ensuring that there is no disruption of our services to clients. We are monitoring the emerging situation closely and are actively engaged with all our employees based in China,” a spokesperson said. Wipro has advised its employees based in China to be “vigilant.” “We have also issued an advisory detailing the hygiene and preventive measures and have requested employees to immediately approach the nearest health facility in case of any symptoms,” a Wipro spokesperson said. Infosys is closely monitoring the situation and following updates from the authorities, the company said in an email. HUL has put in place a pandemic preparatory plan. The company is equipped with N95 masks for use if needed. “We have prepared a travel advisory for deferring all travel to affected countries like China,” said an HUL spokesperson. Many companies are avoiding Southeast Asia altogether. “Executives are curtailing or postponing travel to Southeast Asia and also avoiding flights transiting through China,” said Uday Chawla, managing partner of Transearch India, a company that helps recruit leadership talent. The virus outbreak occurred during the Chinese New Year, when many Chinese working around the world head back home. “Many Chinese colleagues have gone to their home towns and are scheduled to report back on February 3,” said Kamal Karanth, cofounder of Xpheno, a specialist staffing firm.