The $12 billion injection into construction will need people we don't have 
 Work continues on the Wuhan Huoshenshan hospital, the 1000-bed hospital scheduled to open on February 5 to deal with coronavirus.

OPINION: It's often said that authoritarian states get things done much quicker that democratic ones.

However, building a hospital in six days must be challenging even for a stern dictatorship.

That is exactly what the Chinese government is doing in Wuhan, the apparent breeding ground for the strain of coronavirus that has killed people 132 people in China to date.

The government is rapidly building two hospitals in Wuhan to handle the epidemic, one due to open next week and another two days later.

As though the tight deadline is not enough pressure, Chinese state media is livestreaming the construction, potentially making every worker's toilet stop and phone call a public event .

It's not the first time the Chinese have managed a similar feat. In 2003, authorities built the Xiaotangshan Hospital in Beijing in just seven days in response to the SARS epidemic.

The hospital build comes to mind at a time when New Zealand, where construction is often tortured and plagued with delays, is about to embark on a massive building programme, thanks to an $8 billion Government spend, mainly on roads and railways. This is on top of $400 million going into schools to improve their buildings and grounds and a huge effort on social housing.

About $7b has been earmarked for transport infrastructure in the six main growth regions - Auckland, Waikato, Bay of Plenty, Wellington, Canterbury and Queenstown.

A $300m fund has also been put aside for hospital building and the like.

In addition we can look forward to an announcement for a further investment of $4b in infrastructure before the election. Marginal seats should stand by.

All this spending translates into many thousands of jobs, especially in Auckland. The projects will soak up some of the local unemployed, but probably not that many, so construction companies will be forced into importing labour and skills from overseas.

Even that might be difficult because rich countries around the world are, while interest rates are so low, borrowing big time to fund their own infrastructure bonanzas. Competition for competent, skilled people will be tough. Maybe we will entice New Zealanders working in Australia to come home but I wouldn't bet on it.

That suggests that, unlike China, nothing in New Zealand is going to happen as quickly as we like, even with the money available.

One hope is that a whole army of school leavers will be queueing up for the jobs once the construction contracts are let and the planning is done.

This hope looks decidedly forlorn if you give any weight to an OECD survey of 15-year-olds entitled "Dream Jobs? Teenagers' career aspirations and the future of work".

It turns out that most of the ideal career choices are fairly traditional. Boys want to be engineers, business managers, doctors, sportsmen, teachers and police officers while girls have pretty much the same ambitions except that lawyer, nurse and psychologist figure in their top six.

The OECD education director, Andreas Schleicher, said he was concerned so many young people appeared to be choosing their dream jobs from a shortlist of "popular, traditional" occupations rather then new jobs that were the result of digitalisation. He might have missed the fact that ICT professional was the number four choice for boys, although it wasn't in the top 10 for girls.

We have been hearing this "digitalisation" bollocks for many years. Remember the knowledge economy and the predictions that traditional industries and jobs were doomed. Of course most jobs now have a hi-tech, internet-based component but traditional jobs still have great scope and demand.

The infrastructure projects being announced around the world will certainly need plenty of these traditional type workers, although they won't figure in the top 10 ideal jobs.

The projects will need carpenters, digger drivers, truck drivers, fitters, draughtspeople, steel fabricators, riggers, surveyors, labourers, concrete workers, heavy machinery mechanics, welders and a host of other useful and potentially well-paid jobs.

These jobs are called livelihoods, not careers, and maybe our education system needs to be working harder to instil some reality and be looking at churning out young people who can do jobs that are available and important.

That might mean keeping people at school for less time, making it harder to get loans for university study and providing fewer places at elite learning institutions. It might mean channelling money into subsided job-related training or work. We need to arrest the disconnect between education and the workforce.

At the moment we seem to be turning out 15-year-olds with aspirations beyond their abilities and not even doing a great job of educating them in the basics while they are at school.

Late last year the OECD released the results of its seventh Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) study. New Zealand's 15-year-olds declined in mathematics, reading and science, a trend going back to 2000.

You could say that provides more recruits for the construction jobs but these have got more complicated and require our schools to maintain high standards in skills and competencies.

We probably won't need to build a hospital in six days but, if we do, it would be nice to think we have someone to drive the digger.