Air India evacuation flight may take off today; China yet to give nod 
 NEW DELHI: India is expected to conduct its maiden mission on Friday to evacuate its nationals from Wuhan even as it awaits Chinese green signal for the exercise. ET has learnt that first Air India flight is expected to operate flight on Friday for evacuation mission. The flight has been kept ready in Mumbai for past three days after formal permission was sought from China. “The government of India has been conducting a regular review on the situation arising out of the outbreak of coronavirus in China. We have put out regular updates on the arrangements which are being made. We have made a formal request to the government of China for bringing back Indian nationals from the Hubei province in two flights. We are awaiting for the necessary approval from the Chinese side. We hope this will be granted soon,” MEA spokesperson Raveesh Kumar said here on Thursday. “Meanwhile, we have established contact with over 600 Indians across the province and are individually ascertaining their willingness to be repatriated. Our Mission in Beijing is working round the-clock on the ground to work out the necessary logistics,” Kumar said, adding, “Arrangements are being put in place for people to travel to the airport. We remain committed to the safety and wellbeing of our nationals abroad. We appreciate the support extended by the government of China and other ministries in the government of India in putting this process together.” China appears to soften its position after dilly dallying India’s request for evacuation. Spokesperson of the Chinese Embassy in India Ji Rong said, “The Chinese Embassy in India has maintained close communication with the Indian government, timely briefed on the development of the epidemic and China’s efforts in epidemic prevention and control.” “The Chinese side pays close attention to the report of the emergence of one confirmed case of pneumonia caused by the novel coronavirus in India and will cooperate with the Indian side to jointly strengthen the epidemic prevention and control. The Chinese government attaches great importance to safeguarding the safety and health of every foreign national in China, including the Indian people,” said Ji.