Queensland 'frustrated' over federal government coronavirus response 
 "We need to know where Chinese nationals are, people who have travelled from Hubei province, where they are currently located in Queensland," she said.
“I’ve just had a meeting of my senior ministers and directors-general, there is no reason why the federal government can’t be on a phone hook-up today, talking to the premiers, giving the most up-to-date information.”
Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk says she is frustrated with the federal government's response to the coronavirus.Credit:AAP
Federal Health Minister Greg Hunt rejected the Premier’s assertions, claiming the federal government shared the manifest details of the domestic Tigerair flight to the Gold Coast that carried a tour group of nine people, of which two have since tested positive for the virus.
“I would also indicate that in relation to daily engagement with Queensland, Queensland has been part of the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee meetings of 20 January, 23 January, 24 January, 25 January, 27 January, 28 January, 29 January, 30 January and I believe there is one scheduled for today [Friday],” Mr Hunt said.

Ms Palaszczuk said Queensland authorities needed details of all flights, domestic and international, not just the one flight to the Gold Coast.
"The prime minister has the data and the information of people incoming from these flights from the Hubei province," she said.
"They have the details on the incoming [passenger arrivals] card, which says very clearly where they are staying and also their contact number, so contract tracing is a number one priority. We do not have that information."
Queensland Chief Health Officer Dr Jeannette Young did not directly criticise Mr Hunt or the Commonwealth, but said she also wanted more information about the virus response.

“We need to know where people are in Queensland so we can work with them if they’ve come back from Hubei province in the last 14 days,” Dr Young said.
Loading
It comes as the World Health Organisation declares a global health emergency in response to the coronavirus outbreak.
As a result, the state government has granted special emergency powers to Dr Young, among them the ability to forcibly detain anyone suspected of being a carrier of the virus.
However, she said health officials had not had to access those powers at this stage, as everyone had been very co-operative.

“We’ve already instituted quarantine, we’ve already instituted a response, we’ve already put in place testing, so we have done so much already prior to WHO declaring this event,” she said.
“We’re already asking people to be detained and people are heeding that.”
Coronavirus has now been listed as a notifiable disease, meaning any hospital or GP who suspects someone might have the virus must immediately inform Dr Young.
A 42-year-old woman and a 44-year-old man, both Chinese nationals, have been confirmed as having the virus and are in isolation at Gold Coast University Hospital.
Seven people who were travelling with them, including some children, are also in isolation at the hospital, with three others returning negative tests and the other four not showing symptoms.

Stuart Layt covers health, science and technology for the Brisbane Times. He was formerly the Queensland political reporter for AAP.