Alexander to vote no on witnesses, bringing trial close to end 
 Sen. Lamar Alexander Andrew (Lamar) Lamar AlexanderGOP predicts Roberts won't cast tie-breaking vote on witnesses The Hill's Morning Report - Trump defense rests, GOP struggles to bar witnesses GOP confident of win on witnesses MORE (R-Tenn.) announced Thursday night that he will vote against a motion to consider subpoenas for additional witnesses and documents at the impeachment trial, putting the chamber on track to acquit President Trump Donald John TrumpDemocrats outraged over White House lawyer's claim that some foreign involvement in elections is acceptable Senators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session White House announces task force to monitor coronavirus MORE on Friday or Saturday.

“There is no need for more evidence to prove that the president asked Ukraine to investigate Joe Biden Joe BidenSenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session Sanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial MORE and his son, Hunter; he said this on television on October 3, 2019, and during his July 25, 2019, telephone call with the president of Ukraine," Alexander said in a statement released shortly after the Senate ended 16 hours of questions to the impeachment managers and lawyers for Trump's defense.

"There is no need for more evidence to conclude that the president withheld United States aid, at least in part, to pressure Ukraine to investigate the Bidens; the House managers have proved this with what they call a ‘mountain of overwhelming evidence.’ There is no need to consider further the frivolous second article of impeachment that would remove the president for asserting his constitutional prerogative to protect confidential conversations with his close advisers,' his statement said.

Alexander's decision makes it significantly less likely that Democrats will have enough votes to call former national security adviser John Bolton John BoltonSenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session Democratic senator to force vote requiring Roberts to weigh in on witnesses Overnight Defense: Bolton, GOP senators see close ties challenged | Republicans fume over Dem maneuver on Iran bills |Trump criticizes Democrats over war powers vote MORE and other witnesses to testify, which would have extended the trial past the weekend and perhaps much longer.

With Alexander joining the overwhelming majority of the Senate GOP conference, it now appears there are no more than three Republican votes for witnesses, which means the question would deadlock in a 50-50 tie or fail 49 to 51.

Sens. Susan Collins Susan Margaret CollinsSenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session GOP predicts Roberts won't cast tie-breaking vote on witnesses Bakery sending cakes to all 53 GOP senators telling them to let Bolton testify MORE (R-Maine) and Mitt Romney Willard (Mitt) Mitt RomneySenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session Overnight Defense: Bolton, GOP senators see close ties challenged | Republicans fume over Dem maneuver on Iran bills |Trump criticizes Democrats over war powers vote GOP predicts Roberts won't cast tie-breaking vote on witnesses MORE (R-Utah) say they are likely to vote for witnesses while Sen. Lisa Murkowski Lisa Ann MurkowskiGOP predicts Roberts won't cast tie-breaking vote on witnesses Collins, Murkowski, Romney get first GOP impeachment question GOP senators believe they have the votes to block witnesses MORE (R-Alaska) remains the sole undecided vote on the crucial procedural question.

Chief Justice John Roberts conceivably could step in to break a tie vote, but lawmakers on both sides of the aisle say that’s unlikely because it could politicize his role.

The Senate is set to debate and vote on the motion to consider additional evidence on Friday. If it fails, as expected, Republican leaders plan to move as quickly as possible to a final up-or-down vote on the articles of impeachment.

Alexander, a longtime close friend of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Addison (Mitch) Mitchell McConnellDemocratic senator to force vote requiring Roberts to weigh in on witnesses Evangelical pastor: Jesus would have 'beat the crap' out of John Bolton Bolton's lawyer disputes NSC assessment that manuscript contains classified information MORE (R-Ky.), for days had refused to tell reporters and colleagues how he would vote on the crucial question of calling new witnesses and documents for Trump’s trial.

The senior senator from Tennessee emerged unexpectedly as a possible Republican defector earlier this month after he joined Romney, Collins and Murkowski to add language to the organizing resolution guaranteeing a vote on considering additional subpoenas after opening arguments.

Alexander has announced he will retire from the Senate at the end of the year after three terms in Congress, which observers thought would make him less susceptible to pressure from Trump and his allies than colleagues facing future primary races.

He and Murkowski had been the two undecided votes in the GOP conference after Romney and Collins announced at the start of the trial that they would likely vote for witnesses.

Alexander and Murkowski had been spotted sitting together in recent days at Senate Republican dinner meetings, a tactic they appeared to adopt to shield themselves somewhat from peer pressure from colleagues eager to persuade them.

Speculation about Republican moderates bucking McConnell on the witness question picked up considerable momentum after The New York Times reported Sunday that Bolton had circulated a book manuscript claiming that Trump explicitly linked military aid for Ukraine to officials there announcing an investigation of former Vice President Joe Biden.

During the days of uncertainty, however, GOP aides predicted that Alexander would not pull the rug out from McConnell, one of his closest colleagues in the Senate.

He and McConnell met in 1969 as young men starting their careers in Washington, when Alexander was working in the Nixon White House and McConnell was a staffer on Capitol Hill.