Waikato organisations on alert for coronavirus 
 Prime minister Jacinda Ardern outlines measures underway to evacuate and help NZ citizens at risk of Coronavirus infection.

A traditional Chinese festival has been cancelled as precautions are put in place to prevent cases of coronavirus in Waikato.

The World Health Organisation has declared the coronavirus epidemic a public health emergency of international concern.

Chinese official data now shows 8,149 confirmed coronavirus cases in the country with 171 deaths, according to state media outlets.

To date, there have been no reported cases of the virus in New Zealand.

But it hasn't stopped a number of the region's communities taking heed of the advised precautionary measures.

Organiser Zhu Xi said people would worry performers or audience members may have recently holidayed in China.

The festival is in its eighth year and generally attracts over 2000 people who are entertained by a dragon dance, magic show, live cultural performances, food stalls, and Chinese lanterns.

He said Hamilton has about 8000 Chinese speaking people in the community and probably over 10,000 in the Waikato.

Zhu hopes to have the Lantern Festival return to Hamilton next year.

The World Health Organisation said there's mounting evidence the virus has spread to some 18 countries, with more than 8100 people infected globally, surpassing the SARS epidemic's total.

As the new Waikato school year begins, schools have also been advising parents of the precautionary measures.

Waikato principals' Association president Hamish Fenemor said they weren't trying to cause alarm but they did need people to be vigilant.

The main message from schools was that if you have been to China, and in particular Wuhan or that province, there should be a 14-day quarantine before children attend school.

However, he said some people had misunderstood that advice thinking they have to keep their children away if they'd been to one of the countries listed as having cases of the virus when that wasn't the case.

"So for example on that list, you have the likes of the States and Australia so there are places that a lot of our families have visited they are thinking they have to stay away for 14 days."

If a student had visited one of the listed countries, instead they should stay aware and if someone starts to develop flu-like symptoms they should get hold of their GP or ring Healthine.

Wintec chief executive David Christiansen said that they had no students coming from the high risk areas of Wuhan, or the Hubei province.

They have sent out general communications to all new and returning students, as well as targeted communications to international students, and migrant and permanent residents.

"We will work with individuals on a case-by-case basis who may be affected and request that they not come onto the campus until they are clear. We will work with any affected students, support them and make sure they are not disadvantaged through starting late.

"We are aware of a small number of Wintec staff who are in China and are in regular contact with them. We have also been in contact with staff we know are planning to travel overseas soon."

In an email to students, Waikato University said they were taking advice from the Ministry of Health and District Health Board.

"Student and staff wellbeing is at the forefront of our actions relating to this outbreak.

"We've robust plans in place that will care for the health and wellbeing of our staff and students, not only of those travelling from China but everyone on our campuses and in accommodation.

"While group travel from China is halted, we will welcome individual students travelling over the next month to start the academic year."

Waikato DHB's Medical Officer of Health Doctor Richard Wall said previously they were fielding an increased number of calls that their public health team would follow up.

"As always, travellers who become sick within a month of their arrival are encouraged to seek medical advice and contact Healthline on 0800 611 116 or a doctor. It is important to mention recent travel to China and any known contact with someone with severe respiratory illness who has been in China."