Diageo cuts forecast amid trade and virus concerns 
 DRINKS giant Diageo has tempered its sales expectations for the current year as it faces a backdrop of global "uncertainty". The Guinness and Baileys maker warned that full-year sales are expected to be on the lower end of forecasts as it was affected by volatility in global markets. The Ftse 100 firm's bosses also slammed the US government's decision to introduce a 25pc tariff on Scotch single malt whisky in October but said it was well-shielded from the impact of the tax during the half-year. CEO Ivan Menezes said that the company's US whiskey business and strong tequila business in the country means it "can handle it", but warned that "hundreds if not thousands of jobs" could be at risk at smaller Scottish distilleries. However, the London listed firm hailed a "good" half-year's trading performance as it said net sales increased by 4.2pc to £7.2bn (€8.5bn) for the six months to December 31. It said that operating profit increased by 0.5pc to £2.4bn as organic growth was offset by unfavourable exchange rates. Diageo said it made progress, but warned that the company "would not be immune from further policy changes" in an uncertain political environment. The firm expects net sales growth for the full year to be towards the lower end of its forecast range, of between 4pc and 6pc growth. All of the company's spirits categories reported growth for the period, apart from vodka, which reported a modest level of decline. Diageo said it was particularly buoyed by strong growth in tequila, particularly in North America, while gin sales remained strong globally. In the UK, the company was strengthened by sales growth for Tanqueray, offsetting a slight decline in Gordon's sales. During the half-year, Diageo also increased its stake in non-alcoholic spirit brand Seedlip to take majority control. However, Diageo said it was hard to predict when economic conditions might improve in markets such as India, Chief Financial Officer Kathryn Mikells told a call with journalists. She said it's too soon to see what impact the coronavirus outbreak will have on business in China, where Diageo owns the Shui Jing Fang baijiu brand and has opened retail outlets for its Johnnie Walker Scotch whisky. Diageo has suspended travel to China, and ensuring the safety of staff in that country is the main priority, Ms Mikells said, adding that the Chinese mainland accounts for about 4pc of total revenue. PA Media