American Airlines reaches tentative contract deal with mechanics union 
 An American Airlines airplane sits on the tarmac at LAX in Los Angeles

CHICAGO (Reuters) - American Airlines Holdings Inc  said on Thursday it has reached a tentative deal with its mechanics union for joint collective bargaining agreements, after more than four years of often bitter negotiations.

In a statement, American's chief executive, Doug Parker, said the maintenance and fleet service employees "deserve contracts that include meaningful improvements in pay, quality of life and job protections."

"The tentative agreements deliver on all of these — and more," Parker said.

The agreements with the TWU-IAM Association, covering more than 31,000 employees, are still subject to ratification by union members, American said.

In a statement on its website, TWU-IAM said it had reached agreements in principle for five new joint collective bargaining agreements worth $4.2 billion. It could take a few weeks for the negotiating committees to finalize and proof contract language, it said.

Parker has been under pressure to reach contract deals with its pilots, flight attendants and mechanics. The talks with mechanics became acrimonious at times, with the airline filing a lawsuit against the union in May accusing it of staging illegal slowdowns after stalled contract negotiations before a federal mediator.

The union denied the accusations in court, and the parties returned to federal mediation in September.

American entered negotiations with its pilots and flight attendants at the beginning of 2019.

Hundreds of members of the Allied Pilots Association (APA), which represents 15,000 American Airlines pilots, picketed at the Dallas Fort Worth International Airport on Wednesday, expressing their frustration at the lack of a new contract.

The pilots union filed a lawsuit against American on Thursday, demanding that the airline stop flights to China as health officials declare a global emergency over the rapidly spreading coronavirus.

American on Wednesday said it would suspend flights from Los Angeles to Beijing and Shanghai from Feb. 9 to March 27.