Why this 2-minute plane rule matters 
 But the importance of getting it right has been highlighted as authorities scramble to contact passengers who may have been exposed to coronavirus.

Incoming passenger cards are the forms that you fill out whenever you’re arriving, or re-entering, a country – and, beyond confirming you’re not carrying any prohibited items, they do actually serve a real purpose.

Australian’s chief medical officer Professor Brendan Murphy explained this week that authorities rely on the information provided on those cards to contact travellers when necessary.

“To actually get the contact details of the passengers you have to go manually through those arrival cards. You know, those cards that you’ve all filled in when you arrive in Australia,” he said of the process to contact travellers who’d potentially been exposed to coronavirus.

“And then you have to be able to decipher what people have written for their contact details, and that takes a lot of time …”

CORONAVIRUS: WHAT TRAVELLERS NEED TO KNOW

THE SEVEN RULES OF FLYING I LIVE BY

While it should be a straightforward task to fill out the card, it’s one of those things that can trip up travellers if you’re not prepared.

Here are six simple rules to get it right:

DO IT ON THE PLANE

Save yourself time and trouble when you hit the immigration queues – don’t wait until you land to fill it out.

Flight attendants hate it when you have to ask them to borrow theirs, and having to ask a stranger to lend you one is annoying, especially if they’re halfway through their crossword. Always take one in your carry-on.

SAVE YOUR ITINERARY ON YOUR PHONE

Having to go rummaging through your luggage for your itinerary, or realising that the only record of the hotel you’re staying at is on an email you can’t access without paying a fortune for in-flight Wi-Fi, is far from ideal. Bring a hard copy of your documents with you, but keep your itinerary details handy in your photos or notes in your phone for easier access, too.

KNOW WHAT’S IN YOUR LUGGAGE

You’re going to have to declare what you’re bringing in to the country, so do your research before you head overseas to make sure you know what could land you in trouble. (See the Australian Border Force’s Can You Bring It In site, and equivalents in other countries). Keep in mind when you’re souvenir shopping that things like food, wooden articles and shells have to be declared and may risk confiscation.

Again, you don’t want to have to go rifling through your bag to locate your passport – have it with you on the plane (keep a record of your passport on your phone, too). And when you’ve filled out your passenger card, keep it together with your passport so they’re both handy when you reach immigration.

You’ll be asked to provide a contact number — for yourself and an emergency contact — so make sure you have these to hand. (If you’re using your Aussie mobile phone while travelling, pop a +61 in front and drop the 0 for international callers.)

As Prof Murphy pointed out, the longer it takes to decipher what you’ve written on your passenger card, the longer it’ll take to contact you in the event of a case such as coronavirus. Keep it neat and make it easier on everyone.

9 THINGS YOU’RE GETTING WRONG AT THE AIRPORT

THE BIGGEST MISTAKE YOU’RE MAKING AT THE AIRPORT

NEVER DO THIS ON A FLIGHT UNDER 3 HOURS