Don’t travel to China, says US, as coronavirus deaths hit 213 
 The daily death toll from the rapidly spreading coronavirus hit a record high in China on Thursday, health authorities said, with 43 more fatalities – 42 of them in Hubei province, the outbreak’s epicentre.
Of the newly reported deaths, 30 were in Hubei’s provincial capital Wuhan, where the virus was first reported, according to the Hubei health commission. The other death was in Heilongjiang province, in the country’s northeast, as Thursday’s toll took the total number of deaths nationwide to 213, with none so far reported outside mainland China.
A total of 1,982 new cases were confirmed on the mainland on Thursday, bringing the country’s total to 9,692, far exceeding that of the 2002-03 Sars epidemic, which killed almost 800 people worldwide.


US: don’t go to China
Following the decision of the World Health Organisation (WHO) to declare a global public health emergency over the spread of the coronavirus, the United States advised against travel to China.
“Do not travel to China, due to novel coronavirus first identified in Wuhan, China,” a travel advisory issued by the US said. “Travelers should be prepared for travel restrictions to be put into effect with little or no advance notice. Commercial carriers have reduced or suspended routes to and from China.”


Those already in China should consider departing using commercial means, and the US State Department has requested that all non-essential US government personnel defer travel to China, the advisory said.
The US embassy in Beijing said its consulates in China were cancelling visa appointments for the next week.
The German foreign ministry also issued a travel warning on Friday morning, advising against travel to Hubei province. The ministry recommended that non-essential travel to China be postponed “if possible”.
Hubei in need
As the Chinese government scrambles to contain the outbreak, the contagion has spread to all 31 of mainland China’s provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions, and at least 19 other countries or territories.
Politics ‘may have stalled information’ in Wuhan coronavirus crisis
Beijing has sent more than 7,000 medical workers to Hubei to help fight the disease. As of Thursday, the province had reported 5,806 confirmed cases, with 32,340 people still under observation for infection. A total of 804 patients were in severe condition and 290 in critical condition.
Two coronavirus hospitals – Huoshenshan and Leishenshan – were under construction and expected to be completed next week, adding 2,300 beds to help ease an acute shortage in the central city of Wuhan.

Flights in and out
Despite the WHO’s upgraded assessment on Thursday, as cases continued to spread outside China, WHO officials said they opposed any move to close China’s borders or restrict Chinese travellers’ movement.
Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the organisation’s director general, said the move was “not a vote of no confidence in China” but was intended to prevent the “damage this virus could do if it were to spread to a country with a weaker health system”.
Warnings of online scams, dubious goods amid mask-buying frenzy
However, more than a dozen countries have started to evacuate their citizens from Wuhan.
On Thursday, the US State Department allowed American diplomatic staff and their families in Beijing, Shanghai, Chengdu and Guangzhou to leave the country.


“The Department of State made the decision to put the US embassy and consulates general on authorised departure status out of an abundance of caution related to logistical disruptions stemming from restricted transportation and availability of appropriate health care related to the novel coronavirus,” the department said in a statement.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying confirmed on Friday that China was to arrange chartered flights to take Hubei residents stranded abroad to Wuhan.
“Considering the difficulties facing Chinese citizens overseas, especially those from Wuhan, the Chinese government decided to send chartered flights as early as possible to take them back to Wuhan,” Hua said in a one-sentence statement.
Coronavirus: US citizen evacuated quarantined after trying to flee
The Civil Aviation Administration of China said it would arrange two chartered flights on Friday, operated by Xiamen Air, to repatriate Wuhan residents from Bangkok in Thailand and Kota Kinabalu in Malaysia.
Major airlines such as United, Lufthansa and British Airways have cut down or halted their flights to China, and there have been reports of people from Hubei being refused permission to board flights. 
Pakistan on Friday halted flights to and from China with immediate effect, Reuters reported. A civil aviation official was quoted as saying that flights were suspended until Sunday, when the situation would be reviewed.

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

More from South China Morning Post:Coronavirus: turbulent times ahead for air travellers as carriers cancel China flightsCoronavirus: Global health emergency declared by World Health Organisation, reversing earlier decision on outbreakChina coronavirus: US reports first case of person-to-person transmission, while France announces its sixth confirmed infectionFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.