Wellington man stuck near coronavirus epicentre, doubts family will make evacuation flight to NZ 
 Jeremy List is celebrating his daughter's first birthday in a quarantined Chinese village, three hours drive from the centre of the novel coronavirus outbreak.

The Wellington software engineer and his family have been told it is unlikely they will be evacuated along with other New Zealanders.

To get to Wuhan, the epicentre of the virus and where many Kiwis will be evacuated from, List would have to navigate armed check points and enclosures, designed to prevent people from moving and spreading the virus.

There are now more than 8236 confirmed coronavirus cases worldwide, with 171 confirmed deaths. Hubei Province alone accounts for more than half of all cases and all but nine of the deaths thus far.

READ MORE:

 * Australians will need to pay A$1000 to be evacuated from Wuhan

 * NZer in Wuhan awaits evacuation: 'I just don't want to spread the virus'

 * New Zealand will partner with Australia to get stranded Kiwis out of Wuhan

On Friday, the New Zealand Ministry of Health confirmed the first "suspected" coronavirus case on New Zealand shores.

Early in the day, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said  there were more than100 Kiwis in Hubei province. A plane had now been commissioned to fly as many as possible out.

But List said the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had told him that to catch the evacuation flight back to New Zealand, his family would have to get to Wuhan themselves.

"The evacuation flight MFAT is organising looks like it will just be for people who can get to Wuhan airport on their own. I can't get to the airport. The checkpoints are only letting medical staff and official supply runners through."

Ministry of He alth Director-General Dr Ashley Bloomfield said he could not commit to getting Kiwis stuck in the province to Wuhan in order to get on the flight.

MFAT was working on all the options for New Zealanders there , he said.

List and his wife, Fu Xuan, and daughter Miranda had been visiting his wife's family in the fishing village on Longkou, in the Hubei province, about 80 kilometres  from Wuhan.

But within three days of List arriving, the Chinese government ordered a lockdown in Wuhan and, the day after, in Longkou. List can now no longer leave the village.

List said there were no infections in the village itself and he was confident containment measures would work.

"Things are pretty quiet, lots of the shops are closed but people are still walking around and visiting each other."

The visit was the first time Miranda had met her Chinese grandparents, with whom she celebrated her first birthday on Thursday.

"Her grandparent gave her a red envelope with some money and we've said happy birthday to her but we aren't able to make or buy her a cake."

Apart from a shortage of cake, the village is based in heavily agricultural area and List said he was confident food wouldn't be a problem.

However, they have been running low on baby formula and nappies.

While he waits for the outbreak to pass, List is trying to get back to work.

"We are trying to get my work laptop delivered here but I am not really sure how that's going to pan out."