There Is No Need to Panic Over Coronavirus 
 The novel coronavirus is spreading quickly. In less than a month, new infections are being reported in all corners of the globe except South America. The World Health Organization has declared the coronavirus outbreak a global emergency, only the sixth time it has taken the step.

In Korea, the number of confirmed infections rose to seven on Friday. Although the speed of transmission seems slow, the country cannot let its guard down since it also saw the first human-to-human transmission on Korean soil. Preemptive measures are urgently needed.

The Korean Medical Association even recommended on Thursday that the government either limit incoming flights from China or restrict them altogether after saying only a few days ago that this would be unnecessary.

The outbreak is spreading like wildfire in China, with hundreds of new cases confirmed in areas outside of Hubei Province surrounding the epicenter of Wuhan. The number of flights between Korea and China has already declined markedly, but 20,000 visitors from China are coming to Korea every day. At this rate, inspections conducted at airports will not be enough.

The U.S., Germany and the U.K. have started curbing the number of flights to and from China as well, and the Korean government must place the top priority on the health of its citizens and prepare for the worst-case scenario.

But panicking will help nobody. Already movie theaters, restaurants and hotels have become eerily quiet, and false news is being spread that coronavirus can spread simply by breathing or eye contact. Similar false rumors also caused panic during the SARS and MERs outbreaks in the past.

As of Thursday, around 7,800 people have been infected with the disease, while 170 have died, most of them with already compromised immune systems. That translates into a lethality rate of only two percent. In reality, a lot more people may have been infected but come down only with mild symptoms and not bothered to see a doctor, so the lethality rate could be even smaller.

The lethality rate of SARS was 9.3 percent and of MERS 30 percent. That brings coronavirus closer to seasonal flu, which has a death rate of just short of one percent.

Coronavirus is not airborne, so people are less likely to get infected if they wash their hands properly and take other sensible precautions. So far, the crisis has been caused by fear rather than the disease itself, and more people have fallen to their death off a ladder than have died of coronavirus over the same period. Koreans must remain level-headed in order to overcome it.