Tourism-future concerns for Christmas Island, with new negative 
 Christmas Island's peak tourism body fears a significant spike in travellers visiting the remote spot could be reversed.

Their concerns come following Prime Minister Scott Morrison's announcement this week that Australians repatriated from Wuhan, China, would be evacuated to the island as part of a coronavirus mitigation scheme.

Following years of what they have labelled "a negative image", tourism operators had just started to feel the benefits of the closure of the immigration detention centre in 2018.

In the last financial year, the remote Indian Ocean island received more than double its previous number of visitors, according to Christmas Island Tourism Association's destination development manager Philip Tubb.

While numbers are low in comparison to other destination hotspots in Australia, Mr Tubb said tourism had previously languished.

"We ended up with nearly 70 per cent more for the last financial year and during that period, there was only about seven or eight months with the detention centre being closed."

The overall spike came despite the detention centre reopening in February 2019 to house a family of four from Biloela, however visitors this financial year have so far fallen by about 4 per cent.

"With the announcement of the reopening, we were somewhat dismayed, simply because we went back from being 'Christmas Island tourism' to being, 'a great place to visit: Christmas Island, the detention centre' again'," Mr Tubb said.

Chris Carr runs a successful eco-tourism lodge on the island and said tourism was "spiking".

"We have been full for the crab migration and then to have news like this again, it's just like, 'oh man, we're back 10 steps'," Mr Carr said.

"We've got to do extra hard work now to re-promote the island."

He said he believed Christmas Island was the "best-kept secret in Australia".

"There's just so much here. There's world-class diving, the water is about 28 degrees every day, all year round [and] crystal clear [with] 30 to 40-metre visibility," Mr Carr said.

"There's incredible reef right on your doorstep; you can just step in the water and you're already in a reef that is more vibrant than the Barrier Reef.

"You've got incredible forests, old growth, huge trees with vines around and incredible wildlife, birdlife, beaches, secluded beaches where there's just no one, waterfalls in the jungle you can stand under and have a shower.

"And of course, all the crabs — the red crab migration that the island is most famous for that David Attenborough even ranked in his top 10 natural wonders that he's ever seen.

While Christmas Island continues to wait for an official briefing on the matter, the Federal Government's Department of Infrastructure, Transport, Cities, and Regional Development has so far been unable to comment on when or if a community forum will occur.

Earlier this year, the Federal Government announced Christmas Island and the Cocos Keeling Islands would receive $4.6 million over three years toward economic diversification of the island.

Locals hoped much of that would go toward tourism initiatives including a new mountain bike trail and more walking trails.

While Australian tourism representatives are keeping a close eye on the impact of the coronavirus outbreak, those from the Chinese community caught in Wuhan are unable to ring in the Chinese Lunar New Year.