Coronavirus: Facebook Will Remove Conspiracy Theories And Posts About Fake Cures 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	
 
 
  
   People wear masks at a metro station in Taipei, Taiwan, Tuesday, Jan. 28, 2020. According to the ... [+] Taiwan Centers of Disease Control (CDC) Tuesday, the eighth case diagnosed with the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) has been confirmed in Taiwan. (AP Photo/Chiang Ying-ying)

  
  ASSOCIATED PRESS
 

The spread of harmful misinformation is an issue tech platforms have been wrangling with for some time. While the dissemination of false news is troubling at the best of times, the problem becomes more serious when public health is at risk. 

With the World Health Organization having declared the novel coronavirus a public health emergency of international concern, it’s increasingly vital to ensure correct information about the disease is more prevalent than falsehoods. As such, Facebook is trying to halt the spread of harmful content and misinformation linked to the virus. 

"Our global network of third-party fact-checkers are continuing their work reviewing content and debunking false claims that are spreading related to the coronavirus," Facebook's head of health, Kang-Xing Jin, wrote in a blog post. "When they rate information as false, we limit its spread on Facebook and Instagram and show people accurate information from these partners. We also send notifications to people who already shared or are trying to share this content to alert them that it’s been factchecked."


The company also says it'll remove potentially harmful conspiracy theories and other falsehoods, such as fake cures or incorrect information about available health resources, that health organizations flag. In addition, Facebook will restrict or block hashtags people are using to share coronavirus misinformation on Instagram. 

When users search for the coronavirus and related terms on Facebook, they may see a pop-up containing useful information. Certain organizations will be able to run coronavirus education ad campaigns for free on Instagram and Facebook in areas affected by the virus. 


Facebook also says it’s sharing population density maps with researchers to bolster their forecasting models related to the spread of the virus. The company noted that not all of these measures are fully in place as yet, and it might take some time before they’re up and running across all of its platforms.

Twitter and Google have also announced measures to tackle coronavirus misinformation and promote credible information about the virus.