At Our Service! Air India Plane Flies To China To Bring Back Indians From Coronavirus-Hit Wuhan 
 National carrier Air India is all set to undertake one of the riskiest yet critical missions by it in recent times when it flies to China on Friday. The Air India B747 which has a seating capacity of 423 passengers will take off from Mumbai and will make a stop in Delhi before it flies to Wuhan. 
"The B747 plane is all set to depart from Delhi at 12.30 pm. It came from Mumbai on Friday morning only," said a senior airline official told PTI.

There are some 325 Indian citizens who are stranded in Wuhan, the city worst hit by the Coronavirus outbreak. "Only Air India has wide-body aircraft and so we can operate a special flight with a B747. We are awaiting directions from the government," an airline official had said earlier. 
With the risk of flying passengers who could possibly be infected, Air India which has an incredible track record of evacuations is not taking any chances. The flight took a stopover in Delhi on Friday morning to load medical kits and other essentials like disinfectant sprays, masks and gloves. 
Also onboard are two doctors and engineers. The crew will remain inside the aircraft while it is in Wuhan airport and won't be even stepping out to prevent any chances of getting infected. 
  AFP
Only passengers who do not show any symptoms of the infection will be allowed to board the flight. Once inside the flight, items like food and drinks will already be placed on the seats to avoid any unnecessary contact with the passengers. 

The passengers who will arrive in India after a six-hour flight will be allowed to go home after quarantine procedures at the airport. Indian nationals who will be evacuated from Wuhan will be kept in quarantine for 14 days. 
Earlier, the Ministry of External Affairs had said that the embassy in Beijing is in close touch with all Indians in Wuhan and elsewhere in Hubei province. 
"We have begun the process to prepare for evacuation of Indian nationals affected by the situation arising out of Corona-2019 virus outbreak in Hubei Province, China," Raveesh Kumar, spokesperson of Ministry of External Affairs said on Twitter. 
 AFP
India had also launched a helpline at +91-11-23978046 for any technical queries on the coronavirus. The government has asked its citizens to avoid travel to China unless absolutely essential. Passengers coming from China and Hong Kong are being subjected to thermal screening at seven Indian airports to detect any signs of the respiratory virus.