Coronavirus: some Hong Kong banks shut branches as public safety measure 
 The scare over the contagious China coronavirus has spread to the Hong Kong banking sector, with several institutions closing branches or shortening service hours in the name of public health.
More banks, including the giant HSBC, its subsidiary Hang Seng Bank, and Standard Chartered Bank, were considering adjusting their branch services after Hong Kong’s new total of confirmed coronavirus cases reached 12 early on Friday.
The industry was also urging customers to turn to online banking services.
Starting Friday, CMB Wing Lung Bank, which operates 33 branches in Hong Kong, will close them at 3pm instead of 5pm on weekdays. Some branches will be closed on Saturdays.


Starting Thursday, Bank of Communications will temporarily close eight branches – in Tsuen Wan, Tai Koo Shing, Shau Kee Wan, Tiu Keng Leng, Cheung Sha Wan and Tuen Mun – until further notice.
As a result of the temporary closure of the West Kowloon terminus from Thursday, the CMB Wing Lung Bank branch and Industrial and Commercial Bank of China’s wealth centre have been forced to shut as well indefinitely.
A spokeswoman for HSBC, which is one of Hong Kong’s three bank note issuers, said it was considering adjusting services for all of its 100 branches in the city.
Hong Kong confirms 12th case of China coronavirus
“HSBC is committed to sustaining normal banking services to the community, while taking suitable precautionary measures to ensure the health and safety of its employees and customers in light of the rapidly evolving coronavirus situation in Hong Kong,” she said. “We are reviewing our current arrangements and will provide further updates shortly.”
A spokeswoman for Hang Seng Bank, with 77 branches, said: “We are considering our branch arrangements and will provide any update accordingly.”
The city’s de facto central bank, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, urged banks to ensure the public had access to basic banking services while taking precautions for their employees. It said banks should inform customers in advance for any suspension in services and the authority would work closely with the banking industry.

Joe Chau Kwok-ming, president of the 3,200-member Hong Kong General Chamber of Small and Medium Business, said shorter service hours would particularly inconvenience smaller or micro firms and the elderly. Micro firms, which typically employed nine or less workers, might not have online services, while the elderly were usually less tech-savvy, he said.
“As cross-border businesses are supposed to resume next week after the Lunar New Year break, smaller companies will be affected,” he said.
He estimated that about half of Hong Kong’s 340,000 small and medium-sized enterprises used online banking services.
“The existing situation may trigger more smaller firms to turn to electronic services,” he said.


As of 8pm on Thursday, the number of confirmed cases globally of the coronavirus, which originated in Wuhan, Hubei province, had reached almost 8,000 – nearing the total infections worldwide in the Sars outbreak of 2002-03.
The Hong Kong government has moved to cut cross-border travel starting Thursday by closing six of the city’s 15 border checkpoints and suspending travel visas for individuals coming from the mainland. Cross-border transport services will also be reduced, while enhanced health declaration requirements will be imposed on incoming travellers.
Post services and public leisure activities have been suspended while school holidays are extended, and many office workers in the private sector are working from home this week.
More from South China Morning Post:Coronavirus: more than 500 doctors, health care workers in Hong Kong join calls for border closure with mainland China, threatening strikes in strongly worded letters to officialsHong Kong universities suspend classes until March as China coronavirus fears grow, while education chiefs discuss extending closure of city’s schoolsChina coronavirus: where to find surgical masks in Hong Kong, when to throw used ones away and the myths surrounding themFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.