Coronavirus: AI special plane to evacuate Indians from Wuhan today 
 Air India's 423-seater jumbo B747 plane will depart from the Delhi airport for Wuhan at 12.30 pm on Friday to evacuate Indian nationals as China deals with the novel coronavirus outbreak, officials said. 



IMAGE: An Air India Boeing 747-400 aircraft is seen parked on the tarmac at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai. Photograph: Francis Mascarenhas/Reuters

There will be five doctors from the health ministry and one paramedical staff onboard, they said.

"The B747 plane is all set to depart from Delhi at 12.30 pm. It came from Mumbai on Friday morning only," said a senior airline official.


The plane will have one paramedical staff onboard, he added.

 

Air India Chairman and Managing Director Ashwani Lohani said on Friday,"No service will take place in the plane. Whatever food is there will be kept in seat pockets. As there will be no service, there will be no interaction (between cabin crew and passengers)."

"Masks have been arranged for the crew and passengers. For our crew, we have also arranged complete protective gear," he added.

"Total five doctors from the health ministry are also going...The plane will be there (at Wuhan airport) for 2-3 hours," said Lohani.

The government has reached out to over 600 Indians living in China's Hubei province, the epicentre of the outbreak, to ascertain their willingness to be brought back to India.

The death toll in China's novel coronavirus outbreak on Friday climbed to 213 with the number of confirmed cases totalling to 9,692.

Hubei province reported 5,806 confirmed cases, including 204 deaths.

Meanwhile, China will send charter flights to bring home residents of coronavirus-hit Hubei province, especially capital Wuhan, from abroad, the foreign ministry announced on Friday.

Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying in a brief statement said citizens from Hubei province will be brought back in view of "practical difficulties" they were facing abroad.

The move followed Chinese officials' announcement that about five million people from Hubei province and capital Wuhan, the epicentre of coronavirus, have travelled out of the region before the province was officially closed on January 23.

These people are reported to have travelled within China and abroad to avail the week-long holidays of the Chinese New Year and the ongoing Spring Festival.

The new type of virus originated in Wuhan and has since spread to more than a dozen nations.

The Hubei province with about 50 million people has been isolated and all public transport has been stopped. The people there are not allowed to travel out.


Many countries, including India, have reported confirmed cases of the virus in travellers coming from China.

The World Health Organisation has declared an international emergency over the deadly novel coronavirus from China, a rarely used designation that could lead to improved international co-ordination in tackling the disease.