Chinese tourists to WA cancelling in droves as coronavirus impact starts to bite 
 Western Australia's tourism industry has been hit by mass cancellations of Chinese tourists because of the coronavirus outbreak, which in some places has already prompted layoffs.

The state's tour businesses have enjoyed a recent boom in Chinese visitor numbers and a trial of direct Perth-to-Shanghai flights began just a fortnight ago.

But several are now being hit hard during the peak tourism season by China's reported ban on group package vacations.

Peter House, who manages the Lobster Shack at Cervantes, 200 kilometres north of Perth, said the business has had hundreds of cancellations in the wake of the outbreak.

He said the impact on the business, which includes rock lobster processing and a large restaurant, was sudden.

Mr House said about 10 staff had been cut from the roster already.

"It is a big impact and it is not just an impact on our business, it is the flow-on effect as well to the rest of the industry and other people that we buy off as well," he said.

"Normally by this time of the week, predictions for next week we would have had bookings in excess of thousands, but at this stage we have got less than 100."

Geraldton Air Charter managing director and chief pilot Wendy Mann said up to 20 per cent of the company's passengers were from mainland China and bookings from next week had already been cancelled by Chinese tour companies.

"They just say because of the coronavirus impact and the fact that group travel is prohibited, please can we cancel our bookings," she said.

"It is quite devastating to think we have already had about 105 people cancel tours to the Pink Lake."

The lake has become a major drawcard for Chinese tourists to WA.

Ms Mann said she was expecting to lose about 10 per cent of flight bookings, as Hong Kong tours made up a portion of her Chinese clients and the city state had not closed its borders.

She said she would have to consider laying off staff if bookings declined significantly, despite "hating the prospect of putting anyone off".

Geraldton Air Charter has also stepped up its hygiene measures.

"Our pilots and administrative staff are all wearing masks to prevent any virus spreading to our staff," Ms Mann said.

They had also stopped loaning snorkelling gear to tourists.

"Even though we disinfect those, we don't want to have any risk whatsoever," Ms Mann said.

She said she expected a difficult couple of months as the world grappled with the virus outbreak, but she hoped the Chinese tourism market would rebound.

"I believe it is of huge importance to the Mid West," she said.

"There are so many people coming here now and it would be devastating to see that destroyed.

"Hopefully there will not be any long-term effect. I think we can expect the next two months to have those bookings cancelled [but] after that I believe we should be OK."

The WA Government today announced a $2.85 million investment in tourism to "entice interstate visitors to WA" as a way of offsetting the impacts of fires and the coronavirus on tourist numbers.