PNP to help quarantine suspected Wuhan coronavirus carriers 
 MANILA, Philippines — Police officers are ready to assist in the transfer of patients suspected of being infected by the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) to quarantine areas in the country as the government tries to contain the spread of the deadly virus.

Philippine National Police (PNP) chief Gen. Archie Gamboa on Friday said that while it is still waiting for the action plans of the government in addressing the spread of the virus, the PNP could offer its equipment to help in transporting patients to quarantine areas.

“Basically, tutulong kami probably sa pagdala ng mga affected sa quarantine but we have to follow certain procedures and protocols,” Gamboa told reporters in an interview in Camp Karingal in Quezon City.

He assured that police officers who will be deployed to provide security and transportation will be properly protected to prevent them from contracting the deadly virus.

Other police officers, even those who will not be tapped in addressing the spread of the virus, will also be provided with N-95 face masks if needed.

“Marami pa rin kaming sobra doon sa Taal so we can use that,” the PNP official said.

Gamboa revealed that there is an ongoing “Cabinet cluster meeting” which is joined by key government agencies to “thresh out the action plans of the government” to contain the spread of nCov in the country.

Officials from the Department of the Interior and Local Government, Department of Health (DOH), PNP, and the Armed Forces of the Philippines are among those present in the meeting, he added.

“From there, kung ano ang magiging decision nila, the PNP would always abide,” the PNP chief said.

It will also “take cue” from the DOH on what kind of security the PNP could provide in addressing the virus.

“The PNP will always be dependent on the disposition ng DOH kasi sila ‘yung may expertise on determining kung paano rin gagalaw ang PNP,” Gamboa said.

“We also have to take into consideration ‘yung protection ng members ng pulis so we will always take it from the DOH kung anong guidance nila,” he added.

In a separate statement, PNP spokesman Brig. Gen. Bernard Banac said the PNP will also assist in the monitoring of major entry points in the country. Its health service unit has also established a direct line of communication with the DOH for the implementation of public health measures.

The PNP’s Maritime Group and the PNP Aviation Security Group is also already on standby in case they would be tapped should the DOH need police assistance.

Banac added that local police units are on “high readiness mode” should the DOH need to track down persons that should undergo quarantine.

“We assure the public that the PNP remains alert and vigilant to ensure public order and safety; and prevent criminal elements from taking advantage of the situation, the PNP official said.

On Thursday, the DOH reported the first confirmed case of the novel coronavirus in the country, which is a 38-year-old woman from Wuhan, China. She reportedly came to the Philippines through Hong Kong last Jan. 21.

Meanwhile, 31 other persons are currently under investigation for suspected novel coronavirus infection.

The World Health Organization (WHO) has earlier declared a world health emergency.

READ: DOH confirms first case of novel coronavirus in PH

READ: WHO declares global emergency over new coronavirus outbreak

In a bid to further curtail the spread of the virus, President Rodrigo Duterte ordered a temporary travel ban on Chinese nationals from China’s Hubei province, where Wuhan City — the epicenter of the novel coronavirus outbreak— is located as well as from other parts of China where the spread of the new coronavirus has been reported.