Coronavirus live updates: Britons evacuated as US says 'do not travel to China' 
 12.58am EST
00:58




We’ve reported over the past few days about the effort to build two brand new hospitals in Wuhan to accomodate coronavirus patients. The time-lapse footage below shows the monumental scale of the build. 







  Timelapse footage captures Wuhan hospital construction — video






















12.48am EST
00:48




The Red Cross Society of Hubei has come under fire from Chinese netizens who say the charity is sending high quality medical grade N95 filtration masks to hospitals that are not at the epicentre of the outbreak nor fever clinics in the greatest need of masks, writes Michael Standaert.

According to the first statistics released by the Hubei Red Cross on Thursday, the group released only 3,000 of the N95 masks to Wuhan Union Hospital, one of the hospitals most impacted by the outbreak and surge of patients. 

Those stats showed out of 36,000 of the medical-grade masks, 16,000 went to Wuhan Ren’ai Hospital and 16,000 to Wuhan Tianyou Hospital, both private hospitals, with the rest to the other that people are saying is in the most need. 

Cover News has now reported that the Hubei Red Cross is investigating why the masks were distributed to those two hospitals. 

“Thats very funny because [everyone in Wuhan] knows it and they need to look into it?” Jing Xian [nickname], a man from Wuhan currently stuck in the city during the lockdown, but who normally resides in Shenzhen. “I’m angry, it’s ridiculous.” 

“When I was a kid, we all know Ren’ai is a hospital for women and it is a private hospital with a bad reputation,” he said. “So many people are so helpless and hopeless.” 

Posts from people expressing anger about the distribution of the masks to the two hospitals that appeared in the morning are now being censored with a message saying: The content is suspected of violating relevant rules 



Updated
at 12.59am EST




















12.34am EST
00:34




State TV in China reported yesterday that the country’s aviation authority had approved chartered flights to bring Wuhan residents home. Today the foreign ministry confirmed that saying, charter planes would be sent to bring citizens from virus-hit Hubei province who are overseas back “as soon as possible”.

This is in view of “practical difficulties that Hubei citizens, especially those from Wuhan, have faced overseas”, said ministry of foreign affairs spokeswoman Hua Chunying.

The ministry’s comments come as a number of airlines announced they were halting or reducing flights to China as the country struggles to contain the spread of a deadly new virus.

China has advised its citizens to postpone trips abroad and cancelled overseas group tours, while several countries including Germany, Britain and Canada have urged their citizens to avoid travel to China. The US upgraded its travel warning today to say “do not travel” to China. 










  Empty streets in Wuhan. Photograph: China Daily/Reuters






















12.03am EST
00:03




Updated
at 12.05am EST




















12.01am EST
00:01



South Korea plans up to four evacuation flights from Wuhan


On South Korea’s evacuation of its citizens, 368 people were on the plane that arrived back at Gimpo airport near Seoul on Friday morning. It is planning up to three more flights.

Reuters reports that the government says none of the evacuees had any symptoms before departure, but one person could not board the plane due to fever after a final check at Wuhan airport, while 18 were sent to hospitals immediately upon arrival.

“There were different screening standards between China and us, and we conducted another check aboard the plane and put those who were showing symptoms in separate space on the second floor of the plane,” vice health minister Kim Gang-lip said.










  Police escort ambulances carrying South Korean citizens repatriated from the Chinese city of Wuhan. Photograph: Jung Yeon-Je/AFP via Getty Images






















11.54pm EST
23:54



Japan changes China travel advice


The Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, told parliament on Friday the government has decided to raise its infectious disease advisory level for China, excluding Hubei province, to 2, urging citizens to avoid non-urgent trips to the country. 


The government is already telling its citizens not to take any trips to China’s central province of Hubei. Wuhan, the epicentre of the newly-identified coronavirus outbreak, is located in Hubei.





















11.48pm EST
23:48




Fake news and conspiracy theories about the origin of the coronavirus have swiftly followed the outbreak around the world. From fake alerts over no-go suburbs to pro-Trump conspiracy theories, crackpot stories and dangerous advice have gone viral, reports the Guardian’s Josh Taylor. 























11.38pm EST
23:38




Flight Radar shows the flight carrying the British evacuees from Wuhan are currently just over Ulaanbatar, the capital of Mongolia. Still a long way to go - about 8 hours until touchdown in Brize Norton, north-west of London.






















11.23pm EST
23:23




Trinidad has imposed a 14-day restrictions on travellers from China because of the coronavirus, according to the country’s health minister.





















11.20pm EST
23:20



Tonga asks Australia and New Zealand to quarantine evacuated Tongan citizens



Kate Lyons




Tonga’s prime minister has asked for assistance from Australia and New Zealand in evacuating and quarantining Tongan citizens from China.

More than 50 Tongans, many of whom are teenagers, became trapped in China while travelling to the country as part of a China Aid sports program, reported Matangi Tonga. 

The members and officials of four Tongan sports teams – swimming, table tennis, weightlifting and boxing – were due to return to Tonga this week or next, but had flights cancelled. 

There are also Tongan students studying at universities in Wuhan. 

Matangi Tonga reports that Prime Minister Pohiva Tu’i’onetoa asked that the citizens be temporarily quarantined in Australia or New Zealand and that if they are found to have the virus, kept in Australia or New Zealand until they are well.


New Zealand has said it will launch an independent rescue mission to evacuate its citizens from Wuhan, chartering an Air New Zealand plane.

The foreign minister, Winston Peters, said the plane would carry 300 people to New Zealand and that any additional seats on the Air New Zealand flight would be allocated to Pacific Islanders and Australians “as a matter of priority”.

There are currently 82 New Zealanders registered on Safetravel as being in Wuhan, and 57 of those have sought consular assistance. 

“The Government of Tonga are making all efforts to protect Tonga and its people from the virus, which has not been confirmed in Tonga.”





















11.18pm EST
23:18




Here’s some more on those Pakistani students stranded in Hubei from the Guardian’s Ben Doherty.






















11.14pm EST
23:14




The BBC’s China correspondent, Stephen McDonell has a good point re the figures being quoted for people who have recovered from the virus. At the moment the figure is 171, from more than 9,700 confirmed infections. He suggests maybe Chinese authorities are keeping people in hospital for longer or they are not monitoring recoveries very closely.