America Is Not Ready For The Coronavirus 
 The race is on between science and the coronavirus that appeared in Wuhan, China in December. The virus may be more virulent than the SARS virus in 2003. which killed about 800 people in eight months. This  coronavirus  has killed over 210 people — and rising — in China in one month.
The WHO just called the outbreak a global health emergency, though governments—especially China—already took  dramatic action. The Chinese government’s bold public-health response to the virus — restricting travel of hundreds of millions of people — will hurt the Chinese economy  The most narrow-minded and short-sighted of us may think if the virus hurts China, it helps us, as if China’s loss must be America’s gain. 
Sadly, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross pretty much said that today. But economists will tell you that economic losses and gains, like worldwide health, is interconnected.  Sorry, Secretary Ross you are wrong, the virus may interconnect itself like markets interconnect. Any shutdown of business and consumer activity in one major trading partner will affect the other, and a slowing Chinese economy is not good for the U.S. 
Is the United States ready for an onslaught of the coronavirus? 
Wondering about the answer  I turned to an expert who’s been worrying about our infrastructure to fight everything from a chemical attack to a virus attack for over 38 years. That expert happens to be my brother, David Ghilarducci, who is an emergency room physician and the EMS medical director for San Benito and Santa Cruz counties in California. 
“David, are we ready for a wave of people sick with upper respiratory disease?” 
“Absolutely, not. Sick people will come to the emergency room, which are typically crowded with people seeking routine care and urgent care. They will be escorted to rooms separating patients with cloth curtains or lying in gurneys in hallways. In fact, the ER is one of the worse places a sick person can go.
“Why?”
Because there isn’t enough government money ensuring universal health care and people’s access to clinics and doctors. 
We aren’t ready for a pandemic. Hey, we aren’t even ready for Saturday night.”
But having a health care sector that can handle many gravely sick people and help others not get sick. The other thing we need is a vaccine. 
Vaccines come from governmenemnt t spending 
U.S. stock analysts search for explanations for market wobbles, especially dips. Why not use the coronavirus as a convenient explanation? That may sound better than fears of a recession because of falling business investment — falling despite the Trump promises the Trump tax cut would boost investment. Instead, gross private domestic investment fell 6.1% in the fourth quarter of 2019, the third straight quarterly decline.
What will save lives and help the economy? Science and health policy. Researchers work to find ways to detect the virus quickly and provide a vaccine. But funding for science doesn’t just fall from the sky—most scientific research is government funded.
Science is taking aim at China’s virus. The labs looking for a cure are funded by the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (Cepi), which is made up of and funded by international governments and philanthropies. The private market instead gives us mask hoarders who hope to make a buck by locking up inadequate supplies of preventive masks and gouging desperate consumers. Markets often fail in crucial times.
 We don’t know how this virus will affect the stock market. We do  know the only way to reduce the virus’s effect on human lives and the economy is government investments in healthcare and science research. 
That people and markets need government is something to remember the next time Congress and the President want to slash $1 trillion from the government Treasury. 
 Without working together and paying for health infrastructure all we can do is wash our hands. 
Keep well!