Woman in colourful face cover on-trend or preventing coronavirus? 
 A woman spotted walking around the Sydney CBD wearing a bright yellow shawl on her head to protect herself from coronavirus has left onlookers baffled.

Staff at nearby luxury fashion boutiques have also been pictured wearing facemasks to protect themselves from exposure to coronavirus from cashed up tourists.

Staff at multiple high-end stores in the Sydney CBD were seen wearing the thin surgical masks on Friday after the World Health Organization declared the new strain of coronavirus a global emergency.

In Australia, the first men were confirmed to be infected with coronavirus on January 25 - three in NSW and another in Victoria.

Two arrived on direct flights from Wuhan to Sydney on separate China Eastern Airlines flight MU749, one on January 20 and another on an unknown date.

Both these flights had up to 250 passengers plus several crew on board who are prime candidates for infection.

Another man, diagnosed on the same day, flew in to Sydney via Shenzhen, near Hong Kong, on January 6 on a plane that carries up to 277 people.

The fourth arrived in Melbourne from Wuhan via Guangzhou on January 19 on a an A388 carrying up to 525 passengers.

A total of 167 flights that can carry 48,999 people are landing in Australia from mainland China per week as coronavirus spreads around the world.

Based on those figures, as many as 342,993 people may have entered Australia from China since the deadly virus was first detected in Wuhan seven weeks ago.

On Thursday, major airlines suspended or reduced services to China including British Airways, Lufthansa, American Airlines, KLM, and United.

But the airlines that fly from China to Australia - including eight Chinese airlines and Qantas - made no changes to their routes, except for China Eastern cancelling its flight from Wuhan to Sydney last week.

The flights include 62 planes from Guangzhou, 42 from Shanghai and 18 from Beijing per week, with direct routes to Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Darwin.

On Wednesday, Qantas chief executive Alan Joyce said the airline was considering scrapping its Sydney to Beijing route due to low demand.

The airline had already announced plans to axe that service from March, but Mr Joyce suggested that could happen sooner.

NSW Health advice states that people are at risk of catching the virus if they spent 15 minutes in close contact, such as a face-to-face conversation, or two hours in the same confined space.

Chinese health authorities have confirmed that, contrary to earlier belief, patients are contagious even before they develop symptoms.

On Monday, it was confirmed that a 21-year-old University of NSW student who arrived on a different MU749 flight was infected.

The university told students in an email that she became unwell soon after her flight and isolated herself in her on-campus dorm room for 24 hours before going to hospital.

UNSW is not in semester but there are still some students and staff on campus she could have interacted with, along with on public transport and at the airport.

Many students are terrified they could be infected next, especially with thousands of Chinese classmates due to arrive on campus in coming weeks.

The second Melbourne patient landed on January 21, though it is not clear which flight he was on, and wasn't diagnosed until Wednesday.

The man in his 60s went to hospital two days later but was allowed out of isolation to celebrate Australia Day with his family.

He was with five family members - three adults and two children - at The House of Delight in Glen Waverley between 5.30pm and 7pm.

Victoria's chief health officer Dr Brett Sutton urged other diners to contact the health department and watch for coronavirus symptoms.

Other businesses in the same building as the restaurant on 52 Montclair Avenue have closed until February 9 and others are thinking about shutting up shop.

A cleaner was brought in to disinfect buttons in the building's lift.

One of the patient's adult relatives and one of the children have tested negative so far, and all five are in isolation with him.

The seventh victim has the most capacity to have infected hundreds of others.

The 44-year-old Chinese tourist arrived in Melbourne from Wuhan via Singapore on January 22 and spent several days travelling with a tour group.

On Thursday night it was confirmed that one of them, a 42-year-old woman, contracted the virus herself, while three others were sick.

All eight of his fellow holidaymakers are now in isolation with him at Gold Coast University Hospital.

They all took Tiger Air flight TT566, landing on the Gold Coast about 8pm on Monday on a plane that carries up to 189 passengers.

Queensland Health chief officer Dr Jeannette Young on Thursday said she was concerned about everyone on the plane.

On Friday, it was revealed an Australian team that includes the CSIRO, the Doherty Institute and the University of Queensland were working on producing a vaccine.

The goal of the team, working with other global agencies, is to develop the vaccine within weeks.