Coronavirus fears: Schools confirm TWO students are in isolation 
 Students at three schools have been placed in isolation after they flew home from holidays on board a Tiger Airways flight with a man infected by the coronavirus.

Queensland's Crestmead State School, Kingston State College and the Pacific Pines State High School have confirmed one pupil each was in isolation on Friday.

The Brisbane and Gold Coast students' quarantine is purely as a precautionary measure, officials told parents.

The students - in Year 1 at Crestmead, Year 8 at Kingston and Year 10 at Pacific Pines - were on board Monday's Tiger Flight TT566 from Melbourne to the Gold Coast.

The man had travelled from Wuhan, the virus's epicentre in China, to Melbourne, and then on to Queensland on board the domestic flight.

The schools each blasted the news out to parents in special newsletters to parents this afternoon.

'Today we received information that a member of our school community - a Year 1 student ... - was on that flight,' the Crestmead newsletter said.

'In accordance with the established protocol, they are now in isolation purely as a precautionary measure.

The newsletter stressed 'there is very little likelihood of transmission within our school community and there is no need for other students or staff to be isolated'.

A text message to parents said the school remains open and is functioning normally.

The Kingston and Pacific Pines newsletters likewise confirmed a Year 8 and Year 10 student were respectively on board the flight.

The newsletters said: 'The Department of Education has been liaising with Queensland Health on this matter and there remains extremely low risk in relation to possible transmission.'

Despite the official reassurances, several parents and members of the community shared panicked posts on Friday afternoon.

As a Facebook post quickly went viral, one parent said: 'Everyone needs to take a deep breath ... the student does not have the virus'.

Only nine people in Australia have tested positive to the virus, plus an additional two Australian citizens in China.

Two people - a 44-year-old Chinese man and a 42-year-old woman - have tested positive in Queensland and are receiving treatment.

More than 150 people were on board the Tiger flight, with health officials attempting to contact every passenger on board.

Daily Mail Australia has contacted the Queensland Education Department for comment.