Binay to Palace: Appoint Duque as ‘official’ nCoV spokesperson 
 MANILA, Philippines — To ensure that the public receives timely and factual information on matters related to the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV), Health Secretary Francisco Duque III should be appointed by President Rodrigo Duterte as the “official spokesperson,” said Senator Nancy Binay.

Binay made the call on Friday, saying the country should “step up and elevate the ante in risk communication.”

“I appeal to the President to appoint only one official spokesperson and only one voice who will regularly update the public of the latest developments on nCoV, and prevent anyone from government to issue statements, President’s policy positions that are not official, verified, vetted nor cleared by agencies handling the nCoV situation,” Binay said in a statement.

Further, Binay said that with the country also “battling an epidemic of fake news,” the Palace could also set up a  high-level risk communication team to ensure that the information being released by the government are verified.

This team will be composed of representatives from different government agencies and shall have a unified and consistent message to the public, Binay said.

“Dapat may official statement galing sa Palasyo at di kung kani-kanino,” the senator said.

Binay added that updates regarding the nCoV including travel advisories, travel bans, updates, policy positions, and official directives and guidelines, among others should only be released by official orders.

“Yung public confusion tungkol sa status ng nCoV sa Pilipinas at mga travel advisories ay nangyayari dahil na rin sa mga statement ng ilang personalidad na nagsasalita sa TV at media pero di naman officially appointed or designated ng Palasyo na magbigay ng pahayag,” the senator pointed out.

“Huwag na nating dagdagan pa ang kaguluhan sa Pilipinas. Public health ang nakasalalay dito. ‘Wag muna paepal yung iba dyan because they do not represent the views of doctors or public health specialists,” she added.

The health department confirmed on Thursday afternoon that a 38-year-old Chinese tourist has been found infected with the new coronavirus that started in the city of Wuhan, China.

The Chinese woman came from Wuhan and arrived in the Philippines on January 21 before seeking medical attention four days later.