Brit dad in Coronavirus-hit Wuhan with family after 'missing' rescue flight 
 A BRIT dad has been left stranded in coronavirus-hit Wuhan with his wife and newborn after they missed the rescue flight out of China.

Adam Bridgeman, 33, had been hoping to evacuate with his wife Su, 32, and four-week-old baby Austin as the coronavirus death toll climbs to 213.

Brits in Wuhan were left night flown out of China - expected to land in the UK at RAF Brize Norton about 11am today.

But Adam said his family had not been able to make the flight, having initially feared his wife, who is a Chinese national, would not have been able to get on board.

Speaking to Good Morning Britain today, he said the Foreign Office had informed them at 11.15pm they would need to get to the airport at 1am to fly out.

He said: "We decided we couldn't really do that.

"Then at 1am they said we could still make the plane if we arrived at 3am."

The family then rushed to try to make the flight, with the Foreign Office even offering up a car to get them there.

But ultimately, they didn't make it - among a number of other Brits who said they had likewise only been given two hours to get to their airport.

Adam said: "We're OK, and staying positive.

"Hopefully this will all blow over."

The plane that flew out last night is carrying around 87 Brits who were stranded in Wuhan. They will arrive at the RAF base before they're taken by bus to their quarantine accommodation at Arrowe Park Hospital in Wirral, Merseyside.

He said the Foreign Office had told them they were now hoping to organise another flight for Brits in China after the World Health Organisation declared the outbreak a global health emergency on an unprecedented scale.

Twenty-seven EU citizens are also on the flight and it's expected they'll be dropped off in Spain after the flight lands in Britain.

Anthony May-Smith, who had his bags packed for days, told Sky News he had just two hours to get to the meeting point and was not able to make the rescue flight.

He said: "There's a complete transport ban in the city.

"I've said this to them every time I've spoken to them and asked them what they can do to help, and every time, always 'make your own way there'.

"It's literally impossible to get there."

Three military medics and Public Health England (PHE) officials will be on board the rescue flight, but it will be crewed by civilians.

It comes as health bosses confirmed 161 coronavirus tests have been carried out in the UK - all have come back negative.

In a statement earlier on Thursday, Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab confirmed a rescue flight had been given the go-ahead.

He added: "The safety and security of British nationals is our top priority.

"Our Embassy in Beijing and consular teams remain in close contact with British nationals in the region to ensure they have the latest information they need."