Irish evacuees from China face fortnight in quarantine in UK 
 A group of Irish people who are being evacuated from the Chinese city at the centre of the coronavirus outbreak will have to spend two weeks in quarantine in a UK hospital.

A group of Irish people who are being evacuated from the Chinese city at the centre of the coronavirus outbreak will have to spend two weeks in quarantine in a UK hospital.

The rescue flight with three Irish nationals, who were stranded in Wuhan for a week, is part of an airlift for around 150 Britons. A number of other Irish in Wuhan have opted to stay and declined the offer of a seat on the plane which is due in the UK today.

It is understood that returning passengers will be put on buses which will take them to empty staff accommodation at Arrowe Park Hospital, in Wirral, Merseyside, where they will stay for two weeks.

The 900-bed flagship hospital is situated in the Wirral peninsula.

A pool table has been installed and access to the internet has been arranged to provide entertainment for the passengers, none of whom would have been allowed leave Wuhan if they did not pass a medical exam indicating they were clear of the virus. It comes amid tightened checks here by the HSE to keep Ireland free of the spread of the virus which has killed 170 and infected over 7,700. Health officials said a number of suspected cases were examined here in the past week but they were given the all clear and none was in need of more testing. Earlier yesterday Dr Sam McConkey, an infectious disease consultant in Beaumont Hospital, said there was the potential for 20,000 cases of the virus here. He warned: "It hasn't yet been detected in Ireland but it is quite possible that over the next three, four, six or eight weeks, that we might be seeing thousands of people coming to emergency rooms with that virus." Asked about the forecast, Dr Kevin Kelleher, head of health protection in the HSE, said there was a strong action plan in place to detect a case and prevent its spread. "We are putting a massive amount of effort into dealing with any really quite low degree of possibility of a case to ensure that we don't miss anything." If a case was detected, the contacts of the infected patient would be traced and tested. The measures are being overseen by a HSE multi-disciplinary team. Dr Cillian de Gascun, head of the Virus Reference Laboratory in UCD, said it will be able to test for the virus from Monday and provide a same-day result. Ireland has been deemed at "moderate" risk of a coronavirus case. Travellers wearing masks arrive on a direct flight from China, after a spokesman from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said a traveller from China had been the first person in the United States to be diagnosed with the Wuhan coronavirus, at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport in SeaTac, Washington, U.S. January 23, 2020. REUTERS/David Ryder Dr Michael Ryan, Executive Director of WHO Health Emergencies Programme speaks during a news conference following the second meeting of the International Health Regulations (IHR) Emergency Committee for Pneumonia due to the Novel Coronavirus 2019-nCoV in Geneva, Switzerland January 23, 2020. Christopher Black/WHO/Handout A news conference following the second meeting of the International Health Regulations (IHR) Emergency Committee for Pneumonia due to the Novel Coronavirus 2019-nCoV in Geneva, Switzerland January 23, 2020. Christopher Black/WHO Vietnam's Vice Minister of Health Nguyen Truong Son (R) talks with a man at an isolated section of a hospital where two Chinese citizens had tested positive for coronavirus, in Ho Chi Minh city, Vietnam January 23, 2020. Thanh Chung/VNA via REUTERS. Medical staff transfer a patient of a highly suspected case of a new coronavirus at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Hong Kong, China January 22, 2020. Picture taken January 22, 2020. cnsphoto via REUTERS Francisco Alvarez, the regional public health officer, speaks to dockworkers about the new coronavirus, in the port of Valparaiso, Chile January 23, 2020. REUTERS/Rodrigo Garrido Dr Didier Houssin, chairperson of the International Health Regulations Emergency Committee speaks during a news conference following the second meeting of the International Health Regulations (IHR) Emergency Committee for Pneumonia due to the Novel Coronavirus 2019-nCoV in Geneva, Switzerland January 23, 2020. Christopher Black/WHO/Handout A man stands in front of a screen showing that multiple departure flights have been cancelled after the city was locked down following the outbreak of a new coronavirus, at an airport in Wuhan, Hubei province, China January 23, 2020. cnsphoto via REUTERS Dr Didier Houssin, chairperson of the International Health Regulations Emergency Committee speaks during a news conference following the second meeting of the International Health Regulations (IHR) Emergency Committee for Pneumonia due to the Novel Coronavirus 2019-nCoV in Geneva, Switzerland January 23, 2020. Christopher Black/WHO/Handout via REUTERS Travellers wearing masks arrive on a direct flight from China, after a spokesman from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said a traveller from China had been the first person in the United States to be diagnosed with the Wuhan coronavirus, at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport in SeaTac, Washington, U.S. January 23, 2020. REUTERS/David Ryder Director-General of WHO Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus speaks during a news conference following the second meeting of the International Health Regulations (IHR) Emergency Committee for Pneumonia due to the Novel Coronavirus 2019-nCoV in Geneva, Switzerland January 23, 2020. Christopher Black/WHO/Handout via REUTERS ATTENTION EDITORS - THIS IMAGE WAS PROVIDED BY A THIRD PARTY FILE PHOTO: A woman wearing a mask walks past a quarantine notice about the outbreak of coronavirus in Wuhan, China at an arrival hall of Haneda airport in Tokyo, Japan, January 20, 2020. REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon/File Photo A medical staff attends a patient with pneumonia caused by the new coronavirus at the Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, in Wuhan, Hubei province, China January 22, 2020. Picture taken January 22, 2020. cnsphoto via REUTERS Medical staff transfer a patient of a suspected case of a new coronavirus at the Prince of Wales Hospital in Hong Kong, China January 22, 2020. Picture taken January 22, 2020. cnsphoto via REUTERS. ATTENTION EDITORS - THIS IMAGE WAS PROVIDED BY A THIRD PARTY. CHINA OUT. Passengers wear protective face masks at the departure hall of the high speed train station in Hong Kong, Thursday, Jan. 23, 2020. China closed off a city of more than 11 million people Thursday, halting transportation and warning against public gatherings, to try to stop the spread of a deadly new virus that has sickened hundreds and spread to other cities and countries in the Lunar New Year travel rush. (AP Photo/Kin Cheung) A traveller wearing a mask arrives on a direct flight from China, after a spokesman from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said a traveller from China had been the first person in the United States to be diagnosed with the Wuhan coronavirus, at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport in SeaTac, Washington, U.S. January 23, 2020. REUTERS/David Ryder A traveller wearing a mask arrives on a direct flight from China, after a spokesman from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said a traveller from China had been the first person in the United States to be diagnosed with the Wuhan coronavirus, at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport in SeaTac, Washington, U.S. January 23, 2020. REUTERS/David Ryder Medical staff transfer a patient of a suspected case of a new coronavirus at the Prince of Wales Hospital in Hong Kong, China January 22, 2020. Picture taken January 22, 2020. cnsphoto via REUTERS. ATTENTION EDITORS - THIS IMAGE WAS PROVIDED BY A THIRD PARTY. CHINA OUT. Risk factors include anyone who has been in Wuhan and developed symptoms such as fever, shortness of breath or cough within two weeks of return. Dr John Cuddihy, director of the Health Protection Surveillance Centre (HPSC), advised any members of the public who have developed symptoms after being in Wuhan to ring their GP. "If somebody has travelled to Wuhan in the Hubei province and you become unwell, especially with respiratory symptoms, temperature, cough, breathing difficulties, within 14 days of returning, then we're emphasising that person should phone their GP and mention relevant concerns," Dr Cuddihy said. Protection: Imperial guards wear face masks during a re-enactment of the Royal Guards Changing Ceremony in front of Deoksu Palace in Seoul, South Korea. Photo: AP/Ahn Young-joon