Brits with 'coronavirus symptoms' to be transferred to Liverpool 
 Quarantined Brits due to arrive in Merseyside today are to be taken to Royal Liverpool Hospital if they have "symptoms suspicious of coronavirus", it's been confirmed.

On Thursday night it was announced more than 80 Britons on an evacuation flight from Wuhan and are due to arrive at the RAF airbase Brize Norton in Oxfordshire at about 1pm.

The passengers are then be kept in quarantine in accommodation in the North West, expected to be a site at Arrowe Park.

The evacuation came after the UK's four chief medical officers raised the risk level of the illness from low to moderate and the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared an international public health emergency.

Around 100 British evacuees will make their way in a convoy to Arrowe Park, where it is expected they will spend two weeks in quarantine.

On arrival, passengers will be taken by bus to the Wirral hospital for a quarantine period of 14 days, where they will be housed in an NHS staff accommodation block with access to the internet.

However anyone with 'suspicious symptoms' will be taken to the Royal Liverpool Hospital which has a high-level infectious diseases unit, the Press Association confirmed.

On Thursday evening, WHO declared coronavirus as an international public health emergency due to fears of the virus spreading to countries with weaker health infrastructure.

Shortly after the quarantine centre was revealed, people at the teaching hospitals began reporting that dozens of electrical appliances were being moved into the building, seemingly in preparation for the patients arriving on Friday.

One woman, whose relative is currently a patient at Arrow Park, told the ECHO: "New TVs arriving for the quarantined people.

"They have also brought washing machines in."

Another man also said that he had seen fridges being unloaded off the back of a van and taken into the ground floor of the accommodation.

It has also been reported that a number of hospital staff who live at the accommodation have been asked to leave temporarily but this has not been confirmed.

Janelle Holmes, chief executive of Wirral University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, sent a message to staff this evening.

It says: “Dear colleagues, You will be aware of the current situation in Wuhan City, China and the novel coronavirus outbreak.

"While there are no confirmed cases in the UK, I am writing to you to inform you of some next steps.

Around 100 British citizens will be travelling to the UK from China tomorrow.

"As a precaution they will remain in isolation for 14 days following their arrival in the UK.

"We will be welcoming and housing them in the accommodation block at Arrowe Park Hosptial.

"Before arrival they will be screened for symptoms. If anyone becomes unwell after arrival they will be treated following appropriate protocols."