UK raises coronavirus threat level as death toll rises to 213 
 British doctors says the chances of a coronavirus outbreak hitting the UK are now much higher and are urging the government to prepare for the worst.

It comes as the deadly flu-like disease has infected more than a dozen countries, infecting 9,692 people and killing 213.

The airborne bug is rapidly spreading, with figures showing 1,981 new cases and 81 deaths since Wednesday.

Scientists are still working on a vaccine for the virus, which is thought to have originated at an animal market in the city of Wuhan, in China’s Hubei province.

In a statement, the UK’s four Chief Medical Officers declared they have changed the risk level from low to moderate and said it would be ‘prudent’ for authorities to escalate planning for a full-scale outbreak.

They added: ‘This does not mean we think the risk to individuals in the UK has changed at this stage, but that government should plan for all eventualities.

‘As we have previously said, it is likely there will be individual cases and we are confident in the ability of the NHS in England, Scotland and Wales and HSC in Northern Ireland to manage these in a way that protects the public and provides high quality care.’

It comes after the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) decision yesterday evening to declare the outbreak as a global public health emergency.

The UN health agency defines this as an ‘extraordinary event’ that constitutes a risk to other countries and requires a coordinated international response.

China first informed WHO about cases of the new virus in late December.

No deaths have been reported outside of the People’s Republic and the majority of fatalities have so far been of elderly people and those with pre-existing respiratory conditions.

But researchers warn the virus could mutate, potentially becoming more dangerous and spreading more easily among younger victims.

Eighteen other countries including the United States, France, Japan, Germany, Canada, South Korea and Vietnam have since reported cases, as scientists race to understand exactly how the virus is spread and how severe it is.

Speaking to reporters in Geneva on Thursday, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said: ‘Our greatest concern is the potential for this virus to spread to countries with weaker health systems which are ill-prepared to deal with it.’

A declaration of a global emergency typically brings greater money and resources, but may also prompt nervous governments to restrict travel and trade to affected countries.

The announcement also imposes more disease reporting requirements on countries.

Numerous airlines have cancelled flights to China and businesses including Starbucks and McDonald’s have temporarily closed hundreds of shops in the country.

But Dr Ghebreyesus said WHO was not recommending limiting travel or trade to China.

Despite this, the United States state department has advised against all travel to China due to the coronavirus outbreak while Russia said it was closing its 4,185-kilometre (2,600-mile) border with China.

The new virus has now infected more people in the country than were sickened there during the 2002-2003 outbreak of SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, a cousin of the new virus.