10 things in tech you need to know today 
 Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos.
 
 
 
 Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images
 
 
Good morning! This is the tech news you need to know this Friday.



The FBI is reportedly probing a notorious Israeli spyware company that was linked to the Jeff Bezos phone hack. NSO Group is suspected to have played a part in hacking phones belonging to Jamal Khashoggi, as well as Bezos, the world's richest man.The Wuhan coronavirus has led Airbnb, Google, Apple, and others to suspend employee travel and close stores as the WHO declares a global health emergency. As the World Health Organization declares the coronavirus a global health emergency, yet more tech companies are discouraging travel to China.Dating apps including Tinder and Bumble are being investigated for allegedly letting minors and sex offenders on the platforms. Bumble, Grindr, The Meet Group and the Match Group are targets of a House subcommittee investigation into allegations of minors and sex offenders on the services.Amazon has reported earnings way above of Wall Street estimates, and the stock is surging. Amazon's earnings come amid weak stock performance and investor concerns over its investment and AWS slowdown.Apple has poached a top Netflix engineer as Tim Cook looks to beef up Apple TV Plus. Ruslan Meshenberg ensured Netflix's catalog of movies and TV shows ran reliably for the company's vast (and growing) worldwide customer base.Tesla says you'll start seeing its futuristic Semi on the road this year. Several companies put in their orders for Tesla Semis in 2018, but it's not clear if more companies have made orders since.Ginni Rometty is leaving her role as CEO of IBM, and its cloud boss Arvind Krishna is replacing her. Rometty spent a troubled eight-year run as head of the tech giant.Elon Musk is beginning to resemble a 'quiet assassin' as the arguments made by Tesla short-sellers 'are eroding,' an expert says. According to Gene Munster, Tesla has an edge over other automakers in battery technology, charging infrastructure, and autonomous-driving technology.The Japanese billionaire traveling to the moon with SpaceX has abandoned his reality TV hunt for a girlfriend. Yusaku Maezawa has tickets for SpaceX's first commercial flight around the moon, which is scheduled for 2023.Intense demand for a lifelike $350 Baby Yoda replica crashed its seller's website upon its debut. The Baby Yoda replica, which stands nearly 17 inches tall, won't be shipping out to customers until August 2020 at the earliest.Have an Amazon Alexa device? Now you can hear 10 Things in Tech each morning. Just search for "Business Insider" in your Alexa's flash briefing settings. You can also subscribe to this newsletter here — just tick "10 Things in Tech You Need to Know."