Hong Kong Airlines to cut hundreds of jobs as finances worsen due to coronavirus 
 Hong Kong Airlines, the sole hometown competitor to Cathay Pacific, is finalising plans to cut hundreds of jobs any day, the Post has learned, as the worsening coronavirus outbreak has thrown the HNA-backed company’s existence into further uncertainty.
The city’s third biggest carrier is facing a fresh financial crisis as its expected income from air tickets has reduced drastically due to a massive cancellation of flights to mainland China amid the epidemic.
With the beleaguered carrier employing around 3,500 people, several hundred jobs are at risk, as was previously reported by the Post. Pilots and cabin crew, who form the bulk of the employees, remain the most vulnerable.
The airline has walked a financial tightrope for more than a year as Hong Kong’s months-long anti-government protests and the coronavirus outbreak have caused a sharp downturn in air travel.

Sources said the airline had been forced to act quickly amid the new financial crisis, despite receiving a cash bailout late last year.
Creditors have demanded payment from the airline for overdue services, while the Hong Kong Airport Authority also impounded several of its aircraft.
To combat the spread of the novel coronavirus, mainland authorities have ordered all airlines to offer refunds to passengers for all cancelled flights.
Cathay Pacific offers lifeline to Hong Kong Airlines’ pilots
The move has hit the airline hard, while the Hong Kong government’s decision to halve flights to the mainland to help limit the spread of the epidemic dealt another blow.
With 40 per cent of the airline’s flights leaving Hong Kong for mainland China on a normal day, it is especially hard hit and carries far fewer transit passengers than Cathay Pacific to fill empty planes.
As of January 1, the airline employed 3,481 people, but the loss of regional and long-haul routes and a reduction from 39 planes to 28 are likely to see that number slashed.

The company on Friday described the current situation as “of grave concern”.
It said it had been reviewing its operating crew and general staff “requirements” as part of its “ongoing consolidation drive to achieve a leaner and more efficient structure”.


A spokeswoman added: “We will manage our manpower resources to ensure it aligns with our adjusted flight schedule and an optimised fleet.”
The airline’s operations remained normal, the company stressed.
It also said it expected a “sustained weak travel demand” to continue into the second quarter of 2020. “Recovery will be slow,” the spokeswoman added.
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.