Transport authorities step up safety, health measures in fight against nCoV 
 MANILA, Philippines — Transport authorities have stepped up safety measures and monitoring of travelers coming into the Philippines as the country confirms its first case of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).

“We have adopted all the measures we deem necessary to secure our transportation hubs even before the first case was recorded in the country,” Transport Secretary Arthur Tugade said in a statement on Friday.

“This development will further strengthen our resolve to reinforce our safety measures and protocols in various transport terminals, in coordination with other concerned government agencies,” he added.

Tugade said the Department of Transportation (DOTr) is in close coordination with the Department of Health (DOH) and the Bureau of Quarantine (BOQ) to support its efforts to secure transport terminals from the 2019-nCoV and in closely monitoring arriving passengers.

The Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines (CAAP) said it has reactivated its communicable disease preparedness procedures on all its airport, especially at international gateways such as Puerto Princesa, General Santos, Zamboanga, Davao, Kalibo, Laoag, and Iloilo in a bid to prevent the spread the novel coronavirus into the country.

CAAP said it has advised airport frontline personnel to observe precautionary measures such as maintaining proper hygiene, and regular handwashing.

They were also reminded to exercise extreme vigilance in handling passenger arrivals and strictly monitor those who are possibly infected by the virus.

Posting of public advisories informing about coronavirus infections are also being enforced, it added.

Meanwhile, Manila International Airport Authority (MIAA) General Manager Ed Monreal said they are fully coordinating with the Bureau of Quarantine (BOQ) in support of their safety protocols at the Ninoy Aquino International Aiport (NAIA).

A dedicated lane with writing desks at the arrival concourse for quarantine thermal screening of arriving passengers was also put in place, MIAA said.

The DOTr noted that the Civil Aviation Board (CAB) immediately and indefinitely suspended last week all air services operations between Wuhan and any point in the Philippines.

Kalibo in Aklan is the only point in the Philippines that directly connects to Wuhan by way of chartered flights, the DOTr said.

It further said that all air carriers regardless of the route serviced as long as the origin or destination is in China, have also been required to closely monitor the situation in other Chinese cities as well as other countries, and to take all precautions to ensure the protection of health and safety of passengers.

Likewise, CAB, had directed all pertinent air carriers to immediately secure from the BOQ copies of the Health Declaration Checklist and to ensure that all passengers and members of the aircrew answer it prior to disembarkation.

CAB then stressed the importance of the checklist in assisting the BOQ in tracking down passengers later on shown to be infected by or exposed to the virus.

It added that all area centers and airports, especially those with international flights, were ordered to immediately review and update their respective Airport Emergency Plans to address public health threats such as the novel coronavirus in coordination with the local Quarantine Health Office.

All ports operated by the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) have also been ordered to coordinate with quarantine office and implement strict passenger screening at arrival areas, the DOTr said.

PPA General Manager Jay Santiago said stringent security measures have also been put in place, especially in areas frequently visited by tourists such as Bohol and Caticlan in Aklan.

“Face masks and sanitizers were likewise distributed to frontline employees,” the DOTr said.

The Philippine Coast Guard (PCG), on the other hand, has advised all medical units in its 13 coast guard districts to be on high alert to block the possible spread of the virus.

The DOTr said the PCG has implemented strict passenger screening and safety measures are also in place on the country’s land terminals and railway networks to prevent the entry and spread of the virus.

The Maritime Industry Authority (MARINA) has also enjoined all ship owners and operators to report suspected cases of the 2019-nCoV.

They were advised to install necessary medical equipment and equip their personnel including the officers and crew onboard ships with full information about the virus.

The MARINA also said it has set up strict health monitoring procedures. such as body temperature tests for people entering the agency’s building as well as the provision of alcohol dispensers at its entrances and comfort rooms.

“All frontline personnel must wear the prescribed mask. All escalator handrails, elevators, railings, and similar facilities are being regularly sanitized,” the MARINA said.

For the railway sector, the DOTr said it has instructed all frontline station and security personnel of railway lines to wear appropriate face masks as well as to ensure that hand sanitizers and soaps are available for use in restrooms and other strategic areas inside stations.

The DOTr said train interiors and station premises, especially in surfaces frequently touched are exposed to the public, were ordered disinfected.

Reminders for preventive actions against the transmission of the virus will also be posted in strategic locations, it added.

Tugade asked for cooperation from commuters, especially those who may feel inconvenienced by the strict safety measures being implemented.

“As we implement preventive measures and stringent monitoring of passengers in our transportation hubs nationwide, we implore the public to cooperate with the authority and also be vigilant in their travels at all times,” he added.

On Thursday, the DOH confirmed the first case of novel coronavirus in the Philippines.

Health Secretary Francisco Duque III said a 38-year-old Chinese woman, who arrived in the Philippines through a flight from Hong Kong last week, tested positive for novel coronavirus, which first broke out in the capital city of Wuhan in Hubei province.