Ministerial statements on Wuhan virus outbreak to be delivered in Parliament on Monday 
 SINGAPORE — The two ministers heading the Multi-Ministry Taskforce on the Wuhan coronavirus outbreak will deliver their ministerial statements in Parliament on Monday (3 February).

National Development Minister Lawrence Wong and Health Minister Gan Kim Yong will update the House on the multi-prong efforts across government ministries and other agencies to combat the outbreak.

Seven Members of Parliament have also filed questions for Gan to answer concerning the outbreak and the country’s efforts to deal with the outbreak.

On Thursday, the Ministry of Health (MOH) confirmed three more cases of the Wuhan coronavirus in Singapore, bringing the total tally in the Republic to 13.

All 13 confirmed cases are Chinese nationals, of whom at least 11 are residents of Wuhan, where the virus originated.

Apart from the 13 confirmed cases, 164 of the suspect cases have tested negative for the coronavirus as of 12pm on Thursday, while test results for the remaining 49 cases are pending.

On Tuesday, the Singapore authorities announced a series of travel curbs amid the outbreak.

There is a travel ban in place for new visitors with recent travel history to Hubei within the last 14 days, since Wednesday. Such individuals will not be allowed to enter or transit through Singapore

This also applies to those with Chinese passports issued in Hubei. For such travellers, there is a suspension on issuance of all new visas, previously-issued short-term and multiple-visit visas, and visa-free transit facilities. The ban applies to land, sea and air travel.

Returning Singaporeans, permanent residents and long-term pass holders with travel history to Hubei in the last 14 days will be quarantined, as will returning permanent residents and long-term pass holders with Chinese passports issued in Hubei.

The World Health Organization declared a global emergency over the novel coronavirus on early Thursday (GMT time), after it initially downplayed the threat from the disease.

Wuhan virus: 3 more confirmed cases in Singapore, total at 13

Wuhan virus: The Singaporeans who chose to remain in Hubei

Wuhan virus: Singapore to bar new visitors with travel history to Hubei in last 14 days