Coronavirus Scare: Chennai Woman Returns Home In An Empty Flight Via Singapore 
 The World Health Organisation declared a global emergency over the new coronavirus, as China reported the death toll had climbed to 213 with nearly 10,000 infections. 
Amid the scare, a Chennai Medical Student managed to leave China in an empty flight  from Tianjin to India via Singapore. 

Source/The New Indian Express
According to The New Indian Express report, the woman named M Velam was probably the last Indian to return home and is said to be on her final year of MBBS in China.
When she boarded the aircraft in China on 30 January, it was completely empty and she took a selfie from the aircraft while on her way home . 
The New Indian Express quoted her father as saying, "She wanted to stay back and help, but we convinced her to return home for obvious reasons. She was lucky to have found a flight as most operators have already suspended services,
  Air India's 423-seater jumbo B747 plane will depart from the Delhi airport for Wuhan at 12.30 pm on Friday to evacuate Indian nationals as China deals with the Novel Coronavirus outbreak, officials said. 
   There will be five doctors from the Health Ministry and one paramedical staff onboard, they said. "The B747 plane is all set to depart from Delhi at 12.30 pm. It came from Mumbai on Friday morning only," said a senior airline official. The plane will have one paramedical staff onboard, he added. 

News agency PTI reported there will be five doctors from the health ministry and one paramedical staff onboard. 
   "The national carrier once again comes to the rescue - this time to evacuate Indians from Wuhan, the site of the outbreak of coronavirus. This mission begins today with a Jumbo 747 operating between Delhi and Wuhan," AAir India Chairman and Managing Director Ashwani Lohan said in a tweet.
India reported its first case of the China virus in Kerala on January 30th. An Indian student of Wuhan University in China tested positive in Kerala, the health ministry said.