No pillows, no hot meals: Airlines adopt preventative measures against the coronavirus 
 Hong Kong flag carrier Cathay Pacific announced it will no longer offer hot towels, pillows, blankets and magazines to passengers on Cathay Pacific and subsidiary Cathay Dragon flights to and from mainland China.

Trolley services and in-flight sales will also be suspended.

Passengers traveling in premium economy and economy classes will receive hot hand-held snacks served in a disposable bag as opposed to the usual hot tray meals.

Instead of getting each dish served individually, passengers in business and first class will receive multi-course meals served in one tray.

According to Hong Kong Airport flight data, on January 30 Cathay Pacific/Cathay Dragon operated 55 scheduled flights to mainland China.

Other airlines are taking similar measures to reduce the contact between their crew members and travelers.

Passengers won't be offered mixed nuts, bread or hot drinks on the flights either. Inflight entertainment will be limited to the newspapers and reading materials inside the seat pocket.

Thailand has reported 14 cases of the disease -- the highest number outside of China.

Thai Airways -- together with subsidiary THAI Smile -- said in a media briefing on Tuesday that its cabin crew will wear masks and gloves on flights when flying to high-risk areas.

All aircraft, including the cockpit, will undergo a 45-minute disinfection period after returning from mainland China. Some parts of the planes, including the passenger seats, pockets and inflight entertainment systems, will go through a deep cleaning.

Other measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus include screening passengers for symptoms both on the ground and during flights.

"In light of the large numbers of people wearing them, cabin attendants working on the flights have been wearing masks on board to reassure passengers who are using our services," says the notice.

US carrier United Airlines announced Tuesday that it has canceled flights from February 1 through February 8 between US hubs and Beijing, Hong Kong and Shanghai.

British Airways suspended all direct flights between Britain and China from Wednesday.

Meanwhile, airlines such as AirAsia, Singapore Airlines, Finnair, China Airlines, EVA Airways and Silk Air have announced that they will reduce capacity on selected routes to China.

Many airlines have offered waivers on change fees or the option to cancel for credit on a future flight.

Travelers with upcoming flights should check with their airlines and look for advisories posted on carriers' websites.