2019 report warned of potential outbreak of coronavirus 
 중국 연구팀, 1년전 이미 '신종코로나 출현' 경고했다



A-year-old report had warned China of a potential coronavirus outbreak.

In the report, Chinese scientists called for urgent countermeasures to stop such an outbreak.

Our Eum Ji-young has more.

It turns out a Chinese research team warned the medical world last year of the potential for the outbreak of coronaviruses from bats.

The report, titled 'Bat Coronaviruses in China,' was published in the international journal 'Viruses' in March 2019 and said it was highly probable that future coronavirus outbreaks would originate from bats and it was likely to sprout up in China.

In drawing up the report, scientists from research institutes, including the Wuhan Institute of Virology in China, collected information from past epidemiology studies on bat coronaviruses in China.

The report said among the three coronaviruses identified over the past two decades: SARS, MERS and Swine Acute Diarrhea Syndrome or SADS, two of them, SARS and SADS first emerged in China.

SARS and MERS broke out in 2003 and 2012 respectively and caused global pandemics that killed thousands of people, while SADS slammed China's swine industry in 2017.

The research team pointed out that bats are important reservoir hosts for coronaviruses.

They said bats are the only mammals that can fly, which allows them to have a longer range of migration compared to land mammals.

Also, bats carry major alpha and beta coronavirus species that can transmit and cause diseases in people.

The report emphasized it was urgent to conduct more studies on bat coronaviruses in China as the country is a 'hotspot' in which another outbreak could occur.

Researchers said another coronavirus could break out in China as it's the third largest territory in the world and the nation with the world's largest population.

They said China's diverse climates and great biodiversity could spawn bat-borne viruses.

The report also noted that Chinese food culture where many Chinese people believe live slaughtered animals are more nutritious could increase the chance of viral transmission.

Eum Ji-young, Arirang News.



#report #warn #coronavirus



Arirang News Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/arirangtvnews