Coronavirus confirmed in UK with two members of same family testing positive 
 Britain has confirmed its first two cases of SARS-like coronavirus, which has killed more than 210 people in China while spreading around the world.

Two patients in England, who are members of the same family, have tested positive for coronavirus, Chief Medical Officer for England Professor Chris Whitty said.

UK health experts had earlier raised the risk of infection from low to moderate, and warned that the virus was likely already here.

Prof Whitty: “We can confirm that two patients in England, who are members of the same family, have tested positive for coronavirus. The patients are receiving specialist NHS care, and we are using tried and tested infection control procedures to prevent further spread of the virus.

Have you been affected by the coronavirus outbreak? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.

“The NHS is extremely well-prepared and used to managing infections and we are already working rapidly to identify any contacts the patients had, to prevent further spread.

“We have been preparing for UK cases of novel coronavirus and we have robust infection control measures in place to respond immediately. We are continuing to work closely with the World Health Organization and the international community as the outbreak in China develops to ensure we are ready for all eventualities.”

More than 160 people who recently travelled from Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak in China, to the UK have tested negative for the flu-like virus.

A rescue flight carrying 83 British citizens and 27 foreign nationals left Wuhan on Friday morning en route to RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire.

British Airways and Virgin Atlantic have suspended flights between the UK and mainland China after the Foreign Office said Britons should avoid all but essential travel to the country.

More than 9,600 people have been infected in China and nearly 130 cases have been reported in at least 22 other countries, including France, Germany, the US, Canada, Australia, Singapore, Japan and the United Arab Emirates.

Public Health England said people who have travelled to the UK from Wuhan in the last 14 days should stay indoors and avoid contact with others.

They should call NHS 111 to inform them of their recent travel to the city even if they aren't showing any symptoms.

People in Northern Ireland should call their GP.

The World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared a global health emergency.

It is believed the new strain of coronavirus was passed to humans at a market in Wuhan that sold live animals and illegal wildlife.

It can spread from person to person via droplets when an infected person breathes out, coughs or sneezes, with an incubation period of one to 14 days.

There are limited signs it may also be able to spread before symptoms show.

Severe cases can cause pneumonia, kidney failure and other complications.