Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam urges residents to avoid mainland China travel 
 Hong Kong’s embattled leader has urged local residents not to travel to mainland China, amid a worsening coronavirus crisis that the World Health Organisation has declared a global emergency.
Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor said on Friday afternoon that primary and secondary schools would remain closed until March 2 or even later, but stopped short of giving in to demands for a complete border shutdown, saying instead that she would discuss tightening immigration controls with mainland authorities.
Some 37,000 Hong Kong residents still travelled to the mainland on Thursday.
Lam said civil servants would continue to work from home for another week.


The WHO declared a global public health emergency on Thursday, citing the potential for the virus to spread to countries not prepared to deal with the contagion.
There were more than 9,800 confirmed infections around the world. Most of them, or about 9,700 cases, were in mainland China, where the virus had also claimed more than 210 lives. Hubei province, where the outbreak began, has confirmed more than 5,800 cases.
A total of 12 infections have been confirmed in Hong Kong.
Lam also on Friday urged Hongkongers to return to the city as soon as possible.


Anyone returning who had been in Hubei would be required to declare that fact when crossing the border, and would be placed under quarantine, whether they show symptoms or not.
Lam said the government would study the use of devices for tracking people asked to quarantine themselves at home.
Starting from Saturday, more temperature checks would be conducted at the airport, she added, and departing and transit passengers with a fever would not be allowed to board flights.
Health declaration forms have to be filled in at the Lo Wu and Shenzhen Bay checkpoints.
Hong Kong Airlines to cut hundreds of jobs as finances worsen due to coronavirus
Lam also said that, after six checkpoints were closed on Thursday, mainland arrivals at the other land and sea checkpoints were down by 91 per cent. On Thursday, only 9.7 per cent of incoming travellers were mainlanders, she said.
But she did not mention figures for the airport, which usually account for half of mainland arrivals.
The city’s mainland affairs chief Patrick Nip Tak-kuen said there were about 1,300 Hongkongers in Hubei, across 30 cities. Among them, 600 had sought help from the government. The Hong Kong government’s office in Wuhan, the outbreak’s epicentre, had helped them by offering information, he added.
More from South China Morning Post:Coronavirus: visitor arrivals from mainland drop nearly 30 per cent after Hong Kong government closes border crossingsCoronavirus: Hong Kong restaurant group calls for border closure, says virus fears hurting business more than protestsFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.