Coronavirus panic: No cure for MONTHS for deadly virus following WHO epidemic declaration 
 Professor Eyal Lesham, the Director of Sheba Medical Center, insisted that a cure could take many months to develop. He explained the information the world is getting out of China appears to be accurate and his sources on the ground have also supported the claims from the Chinese media. While speaking to Yahoo Finance Professor Lesham explained China would need to up-scale its protective and preventative measures as a vaccine would take months to develop.

He said: “Well, my impression from both media releases and sources I have on the ground in China and from the WHO official statements it seems like the Chinese government is reporting the situation in real-time.
“It seems like the information being released is accurate.”
He added: “It is not likely that an effective vaccine will be available for the next few months.
“The earliest will probably be the summer of 2020.
DON'T MISS: Coronavirus: Briton savages UK Government for 'abandoning' citizens

“They will certainly need to scale up the production of personal protection measures and cleaning materials for health facilities.
“These are being consumed both in the outbreak epicentre in China and in countries that are investigating suspected patients."
The World Health Organisation (WHO) yesterday declared a global public health emergency over the coronavirus outbreak.
Health experts made the announcement on Thursday evening following a meeting of the WHO emergency committee in Geneva.

Speaking to reporters, WHO Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said: "The main reason for this declaration is not because of what is happening in China, but because of what is happening in other countries.
"Our greatest concern is the potential for the virus to spread to countries with weaker health systems, and which are ill-prepared to deal with it."
READ MORE:
Coronavirus latest: Pet lovers flock to buy masks for their dogs [INSIGHT]
FCO travel warning: Coronavirus found in UAE - is Dubai safe? [WARNING]
Coronavirus symptoms: What are the symptoms? [EXPLAINED]

Last week, WHO said it was "too early" to declare an international public health emergency but on Thursday said action was needed to help countries prepare for the possibility of it spreading further.
The new virus has now infected more people in China than fell ill during the 2002-2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars) outbreak.
The number of cases has jumped to 7,711, surpassing the 5,327 people diagnosed with Sars.