Duque criticizes WHO for not recommending travel to, trade restrictions with China 
 MANILA, Philippines — Health Secretary Francisco Duque III disagreed with the World Health Organization (WHO) when it did not recommend limiting travel to and trade with China, the epicenter of the novel coronavirus outbreak.

This after the WHO declared the novel coronavirus, which broke out in the capital city of China’s Hubei province, as a public health emergency of international concern.

“They also did say that they still do not recommend trade and travel restrictions, but I’m sorry…I disagree because we’ve tried our best to guard the country against the entry,” Duque said in an interview with ABS-CBN News Channel on Friday.

“But since we already have one positive, I have no choice. I have to recommend as I have done to the President that we have to impose travel restriction and each day if this is going to show that the risks get higher in the neighboring provinces it won’t be long before all China, we will suggest a restriction,” he added.

The health chief also said that the WHO should have declared a global health emergency due to the virus outbreak much earlier.

“I was one of those that had wanted the WHO to have declared it much earlier,” he said.

The Department of Health (DOH) confirmed the first case of novel coronavirus in the Philippines on Thursday.

Duque said a 38-year-old Chinese woman, who arrived in the Philippines through a flight from Hong Kong last week, tested positive for novel coronavirus.

Meanwhile, Duque said he would not recommend the suspension of classes in schools around San Lazaro Hospital in Manila, which has patients who under observation for the novel coronavirus.

He said would be “too extreme” to suspend classes in the schools near the hospital.

DOH spokesperson Undersecretary Eric Domingo has said that the patient, who tested positive for novel coronavirus, is currently isolated in San Lazaro Hospital.

Earlier, a 29-year-old Chinese man, who was under observation for suspected novel coronavirus died at the same hospital because of pneumonia.