Fellaini, Yaya Toure and Oscar among stars STRANDED in China due to coronavirus 
 A HOST of former Prem stars are in limbo after the Chinese Super League season was delayed due to the coronavirus.

One-time Chelsea schemer Oscar, ex-Spurs midfielders Mousa Dembele and Paulinho, one-time West Ham striker Marko Arnautovic, Yaya Toure and ex-Man Utd man Marouane Fellaini are among the players affected.

2

 The likes of Marouane Fellaini have been left in limbo as the coronavirus spreads through ChinaCredit: Getty
The decision comes less than 24 hours after the World Indoor Championships, scheduled for Nanjing in March, were postponed for 12 months.

The Chinese Grand Prix to be held in Shanghai in April is also in doubt.

Meanwhile, Roma midfielder Javier Pastore’s proposed move to a Chinese club has reportedly fallen through because of the coronavirus.

Italian sports newspaper ‘Il Corriere dello Sport’ report that the former PSG midfielder’s move to an unnamed Chinese club has fallen through over his fears of the coronavirus and the suspension of the Chinese Super League.

2


Reports state negotiations to take the 30-year-old Argentine attacking midfielder to China were “finalised” and Pastore was set to make the move to the Far East.

However, the deal has now reportedly broken down after the coronavirus outbreak, which has seen 9,816 confirmed cases around the world and 213 deaths in mainland China.

Pastore was reportedly set to sign a lucrative deal in China but has “backed out” at the last minute because he is worried about the virus and is set to stay at Roma as the transfer deadline looms.

Il Corriere dello Sport report former AC Milan winger Stephan El Shaarawy, who plays for Shanghai Shenhua, is looking to leave the club over fears of the virus and is hoping for a return to Europe.

The start of the Chinese Super League has been delayed but no date has been set for the competition to begin.


Pastore scored 45 goals in 265 appearances for Paris Saint-Germain before his move to Roma in 2018. He has struggled for playing time this season making just three appearances so far.

El Shaarawy, 27, moved to China in July 2019 after leaving Roma and he made 13 appearances for Shanghai last year, scoring four goals.


Brits board last flight from Wuhan ready for two-week quarantine but others furious as they’re left behind