227 Chinese stranded overseas set to arrive home on Friday night 
 Two groups of Chinese residents of Wuhan, the city at the centre of the coronavirus outbreak, who were stranded overseas will fly home on Friday evening as China undertakes its first mass repatriation effort since 2014.
The Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) said it had arranged two Xiamen Air flights to carry 117 people from Bangkok in Thailand and a further 100 from Kota Kinabalu in Malaysia.
Both flights are expected to arrive in Wuhan, the capital of central China’s Hubei province, at about 9pm on Friday.
CAAC official Zhu Tao told a press conference in Beijing on Thursday that flights had also been arranged for Wuhan residents currently stuck in Singapore, Osaka in Japan, Krabi in Thailand, Mandalay in Myanmar, and elsewhere.
“All of China’s civil airlines are fully prepared and can provide capacity at any time once the needs have been clarified,” he said, without saying when the flights would take off.


Meanwhile, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Friday that flights would also arranged to repatriate Wuhan and Hubei residents currently in Canada.
He made the comment in a phone call with his Canadian counterpart, François-Philippe Champagne, according to details of the conversation published by China’s foreign ministry.
Wang said the fact the CAAC had arranged the flights showed Beijing was taking the matter seriously.
He said also that he hoped Ottawa would not restrict travel or trade between the two countries, and heed the World Health Organisation’s recommendations on how best to manage the situation.
The WHO on Thursday declared a global public health emergency over the spread of the coronavirus, citing its potential to spread to countries not prepared to deal with the contagion.
Champagne extended his sympathies to those affected by the virus in China and said Canada was willing to provide support in combating the outbreak.


On Monday, the culture and tourism bureau in Wuhan said that 4,096 Wuhan residents were known to be still outside mainland China but planning to return over the coming days.
The city’s mayor, Zhou Xianwang, said last week that about 5 million of the city’s 11 million residents had left before a lockdown was imposed as part of the emergency efforts to contain the spread of the virus.
As several countries, including Germany and the United States, have been working to evacuate their citizens out of Wuhan, some Hubei residents stranded overseas have complained of being unable to get home because of airlines cutting flights and even refusing to let them fly.

On Monday, dozens of Chinese flying from Japan to Shanghai refused to board a plane as it was also set to carry 16 people from Wuhan.
The Shanghainese claimed their countrymen had taken medication to disguise their fever symptoms. The China Southern Airlines from Chubu Centrair International Airport eventually took off five hours late – with everyone on board – after the Chinese consulate general in Nagoya stepped in to mediate.
It recommended that countries help boost research into the new virus, but opposed any move to close borders or restrict travel with China.
In 2014, Beijing arranged for 3,000 Chinese to be evacuated from Vietnam in response to anti-Chinese demonstrations there caused by a dispute over the South China Sea dispute.
A year later, 600 Chinese were evacuated from Yemen amid fighting in the region, while during the Arab spring of 2011, 35,000 Chinese were flown out of the region.

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

More from South China Morning Post:Coronavirus: Global health emergency declared by World Health Organisation, reversing earlier decision on outbreakCoronavirus: Chinese health experts warn patients can get reinfectedChina goes global in search for protective suits, masks and goggles as coronavirus infections begin to take offThe dentist, the donor, the dude in the van: Canadian coronavirus profiteers run rampant as Vancouver donates thousands of N95 medical masks to WuhanFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.