Coronavirus: visitor arrivals from mainland drop nearly 30 per cent after Hong Kong government closes border crossings 
 The number of mainland Chinese visitors entering Hong Kong dropped 29.6 per cent on Thursday, as an array of emergency measures took effect to reduce cross-border travel and contain the spread of the deadly coronavirus.

But the drop in arrival figures on the first day of shutting down two railways and six border checkpoints fell well short of the government’s stated goal of slashing 80 per cent of mainland visitor arrivals.

The figures were revealed on Friday as executive councillor Regina Ip Lau Suk-yee, the New People’s Party chairwoman, suggested closing the bigger checkpoints at Lo Wu and Lok Ma Chau. Customs data showed the two borders accounted for 35 per cent of arrivals in 2018.

Ip, a former security minister, said the government should also forbid flight passengers in transit from entering the city, require all individual tourists to submit health declarations before entry, and close down Skypier, which connects the airport to Macau and other areas in the Pearl River Delta.

Immigration Department statistics revealed some 19,555 mainland visitors arrived in the city on Thursday, compared to 27,780 the day before.

More than half of Thursday’s arrivals, 9,907, came via the airport, amounting to a 7.7 per cent increase from Wednesday’s 9,196, and a 9.6 per cent decline from Sunday’s 10,955, the highest during the festive period.

Other mainland visitors passed through immigration at other checkpoints including, Shenzhen Bay, Lo Wu, and Lok Ma Chau Spur Line.

On Tuesday, the government said it would cut mainland visitor numbers starting with the closure of six border crossing, but stopped short of the total closure demanded by lawmakers from across the political spectrum.

Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor also announced plans to suspend new visas to individual mainland tourists, in addition to cutting flights to and from the mainland by half, and reducing cross-border bus services.

After the announcement, the government said on its Facebook page, Tamar Talk, that it expected to cut four-fifths of mainland visitors using the above measures.

But the six borders at Hung Hom, West Kowloon, Sha Tau Kok, Man Kam To, the China Ferry Terminal, and the Tuen Mun Ferry Terminal, only accounted for 24 million arrivals, or 7.6 per cent of a total 314.7 million arrivals in Hong Kong in 2018, according to customs authorities.

Some 203,557 mainland visitors travelled to Hong Kong during this year’s Lunar New Year between last Friday and Thursday – an 85.5 per cent drop from 1,401,396 arrivals in the same period the previous year.

This article Coronavirus: visitor arrivals from mainland drop nearly 30 per cent after Hong Kong government closes border crossings first appeared on South China Morning Post

For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.