Facebook to remove fake 'bleach cure' ads about the coronavirus 
 Facebook has claimed it will remove false claims, conspiracy theories, and rumours about the coronavirus in a bid to stem the ongoing public health emergency. The virus was first detected in the Chinese city of Wuhan, with latest estimates claiming that more than 130 people have died as a result of the illness. A further 6,000 people are believed to be infected by the pneumonia-like illness, according to China’s National Health Commission. The outbreak has left some of the world's tech’s biggest companies, including Facebook, Amazon, and Apple struggling to stem the tide of misinformation.

A number of conspiracy theories and “cures” have taken hold across social media, including one that suggested drinking bleach could be a cure to the virus. “We will also start to remove content with false claims or conspiracy theories that have been flagged by leading global health organizations and local health authorities that could cause harm to people who believe them,” the company said in a blog post. “We are doing this as an extension of our existing policies to remove content that could cause physical harm.” Facebook also said that it will inform users that share information if it has been fact-checker or not. It said that it was “conducting proactive sweeps” to remove as much inaccurate content as it could.

“We’re focusing on claims that are designed to discourage treatment or taking appropriate precautions,” the social media giant said. “This includes claims related to false cures or prevention methods — like drinking bleach cures the coronavirus — or claims that create confusion about health resources that are available.” Education pop-ups with “credible” information will also be prompted when a user searches for information on the virus on Facebook or Instagram. The company said that not all of the new features were fully in place yet and that it would take time to roll them out across its platforms. It follows a decision by Apple to restrict travel to China as the virus continues to spread. The iPhone-maker has temporarily shut three stores in China due to the outbreak and will further reduce retail hours at other outlets. Chief executive Tim Cook said Apple was “providing care kits” for its employees in the Wuhan area in an interview with CNBC.

During an investor call, Mr Cook said that there were some suppliers in the Wuhan area but that many of the company’s Chinese production was carried out far away from Wuhan. It is unclear what impact the virus will have on Apple’s production output. “The situation is emerging, and we’re still gathering lots of data points and monitoring it very closely,” Cook said on Tuesday. Similarly, marketplace behemoth Amazon has restricted travel to and from China. While Google and Microsoft have also announced travel restrictions.