Evening Update: Today's headlines from on Jan 31 
 Travellers arriving at Changi Airport's Terminal 1 on Jan 30, 2020. All travellers arriving from mainland China who had been there in the past 14 days, as well as anyone with a China passport, will be barred from entry or transit in Singapore. The new measures will kick in at 11.59pm on Saturday (Feb 1). ST PHOTO: ARIFFIN JAMAR 



The new measures will kick in at 11.59pm on Saturday (Feb 1).



 Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong speaks to reporters during his visit to the National Centre for Infectious Diseases on Jan 31, 2020. ST PHOTO: JASON QUAH 



Singaporeans should follow doctors' advice on how best to protect themselves from the Wuhan virus, which includes not wearing a mask unless they are unwell, said Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong.



 Face masks are designed to prevent the passing of a virus from the wearer to other people, not the other way around. ST PHOTO: TIMOTHY DAVID, NG SOR LUAN 



Masks are not something that you can wear and automatically get protection against the Wuhan virus.



 The latest correction orders came after the Government invoked the law twice earlier in relation to the virus. PHOTO: GOV.SG 



No Singaporean contracted the Wuhan coronavirus without going to China and Singapore has not run out of masks, said the Government on Friday.



 Students on a leave of absence will be placed on a home-based learning plan and teachers will assign work from textbooks and workbooks to help these students keep up with their classmates. ST PHOTO: KELVIN CHNG 



Across all institutions, one staff member and one student had travelled to Hubei, the province at the centre of the Wuhan coronavirus outbreak.



 First day of Thomson-East Coast Line operations at Woodlands station on Jan 31, 2020. ST PHOTO: KEVIN LIM 



Woodlands North, Woodlands and Woodlands South stations on Singapore's newest MRT line opened their doors to passengers at 5.30am.



 A photo taken on Jan 15, 2020, shows a punters queueing at a Singapore Pools outlet in Toa Payoh. PHOTO: ST FILE 



Between Oct 2 and Dec 20 last year, iToto bets that were sold to some online and outlet customers had left the number 49 out of the set of random numbers generated in punters’ bets.



 Chiang Wei Sheng has to perform 150 hours of community service and is prohibited from owning a mobile phone with camera functions during his period of probation. PHOTO: ST FILE 



Chiang Wei Sheng, 19, must remain indoors from 10pm to 6am every day and his mother was bonded for $5,000 to ensure his good behaviour.



 A worker died after falling through the walkway ceiling at Tampines Mall on Jan 26, 2020. PHOTO: ST FILE 



The 26-year-old Indian national was cleaning the walkway above the atrium ceiling on the fourth storey when he fell.



 The Paya Lebar Air Base was historically the site of Singapore's second international airport, Paya Lebar Airport, from 1955 to 1981. PHOTO: ST FILE 



The public can submit ideas on how the 800ha site can be redeveloped after the air base relocates from 2030.