Italian music school accused of 'racism' after barring Asian students 
 An Italian music school has been accused of 'racism' after it banned all East Asian students from attending classes.

Santa Cecilia conservatory, in Rome, told all 81 nationals from countries including China, South Korea and Japan not to attend class, irrespective of the last time they visited their home countries.

The decision has sparked a horrified outcry from students, who have rushed to the conservatory to demand answers.

There have been two cases of coronavirus reported in Italy after two Chinese tourists visiting Rome tested positive for the virus.

An email sent to all staff by conservatory director Robert Guiliano reads, reports Italian newspaper La Reppublica: 'Dear colleagues and dear colleagues, because of the well-known events related to the Chinese epidemic, the lessons of the oriental students (Chinese, Korean, Japanese etc.) are suspended, as well as others who came from the countries concerned.

'The conservatory doctor will visit them all on Wednesday 5 February at 2.00 pm Only those who pass the visit can be readmitted to attendance.'

One shocked staff member said the director's message was 'insane' and that the music school has never had a doctor.

Two South Korean students outside the school told Italian publication The Local that they have asked to meet with senior directors to discuss their decision but have been ignored.

'We've just seen the director leave the building and walk away,' said Kim, 25, and Hwang, 24.

'I haven't been home to Korea in two years. We're not against checks in themselves but this is madness - it's wrong for them to test only Asian students.'

William, 24, a Chinese student studying opera at the school said the director's decision was 'quite racist', questioning why Chinese students that had not been to their home country for more than six months were being treated differently.

Online, the music school claims to be one of the 'oldest musical institutions in the world', tracing its origins back to 1585.

It holds as many as 250 concerts a year with its symphony orchestra and chorus, alongside other groups.