Wuhan virus: Singapore expands travel ban to all China visitors 
 Travellers in face masks at Jewel Changi Airport, amid the global Wuhan coronavirus outbreak in January 2020. PHOTO: Dhany Osman/Yahoo News Singapore

SINGAPORE — All China passport holders not residing in Singapore will be barred from entering or transiting through Singapore, the Multi-Ministry Taskforce on the Wuhan virus outbreak announced on Friday (31 January).

With immediate effect, the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (ICA) will suspend the issuance of all forms of new visas to those with China passports. Singapore’s status as a visa-free transit facility for those with China passports will also be suspended.

Previously issued short-term and multiple-visit visas for those with China passports will also be suspended. During this period of suspension, they will not be allowed entry into Singapore.

All new visitors with recent travel history to mainland China within the last 14 days will not be allowed to enter or transit through Singapore, said the Taskforce.

Returning Singaporeans and long-term visa pass holders with similar recent travel history will be allowed to enter, but they will have to get 14 days of Leave of Absence (LOA) upon returning.

The curbs will take effect on Saturday at 2359pm.

The latest moves would enable the authorities to limit the number of imported cases and reduce the risk of community spread, said National Development Minister Lawrence Wong, co-chair of the Taskforce, at a media briefing on Friday (31 January).

To date, there is no evidence of community spread of the virus, he added.

On Tuesday, the Taskforce announced a set of travel curbs specific to visitors with recent travel history to Hubei province, home to Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak.

There is a travel ban in place for new visitors with recent travel history to Hubei within the last 14 days, since Wednesday. Such individuals are not allowed to enter or transit through Singapore

This also applies to those with Chinese passports issued in Hubei. For such travellers, there is a suspension on issuance of all new visas, previously-issued short-term and multiple-visit visas, and visa-free transit facilities. The ban applies to land, sea and air travel.

Returning Singaporeans, permanent residents and long-term pass holders with travel history to Hubei in the last 14 days will be quarantined, as will returning permanent residents and long-term pass holders with Chinese passports issued in Hubei.