Vietnamese restaurant bans Chinese and Italian school blocks Asians 
 A Vietnamese restaurant has banned Chinese customers and an Italian music school has told all its East Asian students not to attend class in 'racist' incidents as coronavirus is declared a global health emergency.

It comes as coronavirus spread to 23 countries this morning, with the United Kingdom being the latest to report two cases of the disease, and as many as 9,891 cases are reported worldwide.

There have been two cases in Italy, after two Chinese tourists visiting Rome tested positive for the virus, and four cases in Vietnam.

A restaurant in Vietnam has put up a sign saying 'sorry, we can't accept Chinese customers', a shocking image posted online reveals.

A Twitter user shared the images with the caption: 'Things are getting a little out of hand in terms of fears of people from China and the coronavirus.'

And Santa Cecilia conservatory in Rome has told all its 81 nationals from East Asian countries including China, South Korea and Japan not to attend class.

The school's decision sparked a horrified outcry from students, who have rushed to the conservatory to demand answers.

An email sent to all staff by conservatory director Robert Guiliano reads, reports Italian newspaper La Reppublica: 'Dear colleagues and dear colleagues, because of the well-known events related to the Chinese epidemic, the lessons of the oriental students (Chinese, Korean, Japanese etc.) are suspended, as well as others who came from the countries concerned.

'The conservatory doctor will visit them all on Wednesday 5 February at 2.00 pm Only those who pass the visit can be readmitted to attendance.'

One shocked staff member said the director's message was 'insane' and that the music school has never had a doctor.

Two South Korean students outside the school told Italian publication The Local that they have asked to meet with senior directors to discuss their decision but have been ignored.

'We've just seen the director leave the building and walk away,' said Kim, 25, and Hwang, 24.

'I haven't been home to Korea in two years. We're not against checks in themselves but this is madness - it's wrong for them to test only Asian students.'

William, 24, a Chinese student studying opera at the school said the director's decision was 'quite racist', questioning why Chinese students that had not been to their home country for more than six months were being treated differently.

Online, the music school claims to be one of the 'oldest musical institutions in the world', tracing its origins back to 1585.

It holds as many as 250 concerts a year with its symphony orchestra and chorus, alongside other groups.

The decision came as the Como conservatory, also in Rome, asked all students returning from trips to China not to come to class for 14 days following their return.

And a Chinese student at Franco Vittadini Conservatory in Pavia, who recently returned from his home near Wuhan, was asked to keep away from the school for 14 days despite medical tests showing that he did not have the virus.

More than 6,000 students were marooned on a cruise ship at Civitavecchia, north-west Rome, yesterday as two Chinese passengers were tested for coronavirus.