Coronavirus Concerns Prevent North Korea From Tearing Down Shuttered Mt. Geumkang Complex Built By Hyundai For $2 Billion 
 A South Korean quarantine officer checks passengers from a flight from Wuhan at Incheon ... [+] international airport on January 22, 2020.

  
  Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention via Getty Images
 

South Korea is reaping one clear dividend from the coronavirus: North Korea is putting off plans for tearing down the elaborate hotel and other facilities built by Hyundai companies at a cost of about $2 billion at the foot of Mount Geumgang more than 20 years ago to accommodate tourists, mostly from the south.

South Korea got that piece of good news even as President Moon Jae-in was calling for still more emergency measures after 11 cases of the deadly disease were reported in the south. Moon sought to calm what he said were “vague fears” as a plane carrying 386 South Koreans from Wuhan arrived and another plane was due to take off to rescue more than 300 Koreans stuck in the city, cut off from road and rail traffic since the disease was first diagnosed there several weeks ago. 

South Korea’s composite stock index, the KOSPI, closed down 1.35% going into the weekend as investors worried about the impact of the virus on Korean companies in South Korea and their operations in China.


Word of the North’s decision not to demand the destruction of all the hotels and other structures that Hyundai Engineering and Construction put up for visitors to Mount Geumgang, a complex of craggy peaks just above the North-South line near the east coast, came via a North-South telephone line that had been reopened especially to coordinate on moves to keep the virus from spreading. 

The North Korean side said the plan to tear down the buildings, denounced by North Korean leader Kim Jong-un as “unpleasant looking,” would be postponed until fears of the disease had been “completely eased.” A South Korean spokesman said North and South Korea needed “relevant discussions” on the topic, which the North had previously refused, but officials for both the government and Hyundai Asan, responsible for operating the zone, hoped Kim’s dream of replacing the buildings with entirely new structures to his liking would be postponed indefinitely. 


More than a million South Korean tourists had visited the zone over a 10-year period before the South in 2008 halted tours after a South Korean woman was shot and killed by a North Korean soldier who saw her wandering outside the tourist area to look at the sunrise.

South Korean finance officials sought to allay fears about the virus spreading even as major manufacturers curtailed operations. Hong Nam-ki, finance minister, said the virus scare was having “limited impact on economic indicators” while the government made “thorough quarantine operations so that the simmering signs of economic recovery will lead to an actual rebound of the economy.”

Major Korean car and electronics manufacturers said they were carefully monitoring the impact of the virus but still were not planning om suspending operations. At Hyundaiu Motor Securities, analyst Roh Geum-chang told Yonhap, the South Korean news agency, that there was a chance “this outbreak could have a short-term impact on the global supply chain.”

Decisions rested in part on whether China would extend the week-long lunar new year holiday, ending this weekend, while battling to curtail the disease, which has already claimed the lives of more than 200 Chinese.

If the holiday lasts another week, “We cannot ignore the impact,” said an official at SK Hynix, Korea’s second largest producer of semiconductors after Samsung Electronics. SK Hynix net profit last year came to just above 2 trillion won, down 87% from the year before.

Even if the virus is not immediately held responsible for disappointing sales figures, its impact was felt in other ways. After two people were discovered to have dined at Hanilkwan, a restaurant chain, one of its eateries shut down. Ditto for a multiplex in the CJ CGV chain after another person carrying the virus was reported to have seen a film there. The popcorn machine was turned off too.