Bakambu finds out Barcelona have pulled plug on transfer while on plane to medical 
 BARCELONA pulled the plug on a late move for Cedric Bakambu while the striker was FLYING from China to Spain.

The Beijing Guoan star was offered the chance to depart coronavirus-ridden China for a fresh start alongside Lionel Messi and co.

1

 Cedric Bakambu discovered his Barcelona move had collapsed while flying from China to SpainCredit: Getty Images
Bakambu immediately hopped on a plane to the Nou Camp.

But as he was transferring flights, presumably in the Middle East, Barcelona bizarrely pulled out of the deal with no explanation.

However, Bakambu managed to see the funny side as he updated his Twitter followers.


The ace said: “Yo @Transfermarkt change my transfer history with ‘Almost Barcelona’ please.

“No matter what happens we trust the process. Thank God for everything.

“See you another time @AntoGriezmann.”

Bakambu’s nightmare journey came as Barcelona boss Quique Setien confirmed the club would not be signing a new forward this month.

That's despite bidding £85million for Everton's Richarlison and expressing interest in a £20m deal for Chelsea's Willian.

He explained: “I will be calm. There is a risk of injury, and it cannot be controlled.




“I am used to working with what I have.

“It was not to be. The market did not give us anything, but we will also recover Dembele.

“He is a player who has specific attributes and I think he can give us a lot.

“He feels comfortable out wide, and we will try to take advantage of that.

“I’m sure he will give us a lot with the potential he has and will demonstrate the great player he is.

“Dembele is going to be amazing.”


Bakambu, 28, has scored 34 goals in 46 games for Beijing after a £65million move from Villarreal two years ago.

Spurs were linked with a January move for Bakambu this time last year.

And he will continue in China for the foreseeable future, despite the Chinese Super League being shut down due to fears over the coronavirus.


Everton turn down £85m Richarlison bid from Barcelona in staggering transfer rejection