Symptoms of coronavirus and how to protect yourself from getting sick 
 The first reported case of coronavirus has now been confirmed in the UK today, as the World Health Organisation declares the virus a public health emergency of international concern.

The virus has now spread to every region in mainland China as well as at least 19 other territories outside the country including the USA, Australia, Japan, Thailand, France, Germany, Italy and now the UK.

Chinese authorities have reported 9,100 confirmed cases of coronavirus and 213 deaths, and strict biosecurity measures have been put in place in parts of the world in an attempt to stop the further spread of the virus.

The two patients who have tested positive for coronavirus in England are ‘receiving specialist NHS care’ according to the Chief Medical Officer for England, Chris Whitty, who also said: ‘The NHS is extremely well-prepared and used to managing infections and we are already working rapidly to identify any contact the patient had, to prevent further spread.’

The location of the two infected patients has not been released.

The early symptoms of the Wuhan Coronavirus include a dry cough, a high temperature or fever, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing and a sore throat.

While many of those affected have shown only mild symptoms, scans on some patients have shown fluid in the lungs which is consistent with viral pneumonia.

WHO have advised that older people and those with pre-existing medical conditions such as asthma, diabetes, heart disease seem to be more vulnerable to becoming ‘severely ill with the virus’.

For more information visit the WHO website here.

To protect yourself from coronavirus, advice from The World Health Organisation includes: ‘Standard recommendations to prevent infection spread include regular hand washing, covering mouth and nose when coughing and sneezing, thoroughly cooking meat and eggs.

‘Avoid close contact with anyone showing symptoms of respiratory illness such as coughing and sneezing.’

At time of writing, the NHS still state that the risk of getting coronavirus in the UK is low.

If you develop symptoms including a high temperature, cough, runny nose, sore throat or difficulty breathing, the NHS advises that you stay at home, avoid public transport, work places and schools.

The NHS go on to state: ‘Do not leave your home until you have been given advice by a doctor’ if you have symptoms of coronavirus.

To get advice from a doctor without leaving your home, you can use NHS 111.

To get help and advice from NHS 111 if you think you have symptoms of coronavirus, simply use a phone to dial 111.

If you have difficulties communicating or hearing you can call 18001 111 on a textphone.

MORE: Is there a vaccine for coronavirus and how can you cure it?

MORE: Where is the Coronavirus outbreak and is it safe to travel to Thailand, Japan and Australia?