Beware the sick 'coronavirus scam' email that lets crooks hijack your gadgets 
 DESPICABLE hackers are using the coronavirus crisis to hijack your gadgets.

Scam emails that warn of a coronavirus threat in your local area are actually a ploy to install dangerous and notorious malware on your machines.

The global death toll of the Wuhan coronavirus has reached 213 with more than 9,000 cases – surpassing SARS infection in China.

Now online crooks are using the public's panic over coronavirus to spread a dangerous hack called Emotet, as revealed by cyber-experts at IBM X-Force and Kaspersky.

Emotet is notorious type of malware believed to be part of a major cyber-crime operation.

It was first detected in 2014, and is a "Trojan" – rogue code disguised as a "safe" file like a word document or song.

These dangerous files are attached to seemingly innocuous emails, in a bid to trick victims into clicking and downloading them.

In the new coronavirus scam, hackers warn that infected patients have been reported in the victim's local area.

The hackers then urge victims to open a Word document, which contains malicious code that gives crooks control over your machine.

As a result, hackers could spy on you, take over your online logins, and install even more dangerous malware.

The attack has only been spotted in Japan so far, but experts a global spread is likely.

"We expect to see more malicious email traffic based on the coronavirus in the future, as the infection spreads," experts explained.

"This will probably include other languages too, depending on the impact the coronavirus outbreak has on the native speakers.

"In these first samples, Japanese victims were probably targeted due to their proximity to China.

"Unfortunately, it is quite common for threat actors to exploit basic human emotions such as fear – especially if a global event has already caused terror and panic."

The crooks behind Emotet are known for using high-profile events to infect computers.

Panic over the Wuhan coronavirus is simply the latest way of delivering Emotet.

"After a brief recess around Christmas and New Year, Emotet is very much back as the behemoth of email malware," said Mollie MacDougall, threat intelligence manager at Cofense.

"We're constantly seeing the operators utilise new custom-created templates that shift with the news agenda and time of year.

"With notable examples including a Christmas party, Halloween party, and some related to Greta Thunberg."

In other news, we recently revealed how the next iPhone could face delays due to the Wuhan coronavirus crisis.

Hackers have also invented a new tactic for sextortion scams that 'film you watching porn'.

And a Windows 10 bug lets hackers steal logins – update your PC now.

Are you worried about the coronavirus? Let us know in the comments.

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online Tech & Science team? Email us at tech@the-sun.co.uk