Coronavirus: Army sets up facility to quarantine students returning from China's Wuhan | India News - Times of India 
 NEW DELHI: The Army has swung into action to set up a quarantine facility near Manesar to handle the around 300 Indian students being evacuated from Wuhan in China, the epicenter of the deadly outbreak of coronavirus.“There was an emergency requirement to set up the facility where the students can be monitored for a duration of two weeks by a qualified team of doctors and staff members to watch for any signs of infection,” said an officer.The procedure of screening and quarantine will comprise two steps. There will first be screening at airport followed by the quarantine at Manesar, and if any individual is suspected to be infected, he or she will be shifted to the isolation ward at the Army Base Hospital in Delhi Cantonment (BHDC).“Screening at the airport will be done by a joint team of Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) and Airport Health Authority (APHO). During the screening, the students will be classified into three groups,” he said.The first group will be of “suspect cases” to include individuals showing any signs of fever, cough or respiratory distress, who will be directly transferred to BHDC. The second category will be of “close contact cases”, which will include individuals who have visited a seafood/animal market or a health facility or have come into contact with a Chinese person with symptoms in the last 14 days.They will be escorted in earmarked vehicles directly to the quarantine facility. The third group of “non-contact cases” will also be clubbed along with the “close contact” category and sent to the quarantine facility.The facility near Manesar consists of accommodation barracks for the students, administrative areas and the medical facilities area. “To prevent any mass outbreak, the facility has been divided into sectors, each with a maximum capacity of 50 students. Each sector has been further subdivided into barracks. The students in the different sectors will not be allowed to intermingle with each other,” said the officer.The routine at the facility will include daily medical examination of all students at the medical facility area, with all the staff, health care workers and housekeeping staff wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) -- mask, eye-shield, shoe-cover, gown and gloves -- at all times.All the students and other visitors, in turn, will wear a three-layered mask at all times. After 14 days, persons with no symptoms will be allowed to go home with their detailed documentation sent to their district/state surveillance units for further observation.“Those found infected will be shifted to BHDC's isolation ward for further medical exams and recovery. Samples for viral confirmation will be sent to NCDC, Delhi and patients will be discharged only after clinical recovery and two successive negative samples tested for n-COV. No civilian or serving personnel detailed to work inside the facility will be allowed to go outside unless compelled by extreme emergency situation,” said the officer.