Coronavirus: The economic effects are looking scarier by the day 
 Good morning. David Meyer here in Berlin, filling in for Alan.
The Wuhan coronavirus is now a global health emergency, per the World Health Organization. The body took pains to recommend no travel restrictions, “based on the current information available,” but those words seem to be coming too late.
The U.S. State Department last night warned Americans not to go to China, and to consider leaving if they are there. Italy is also blocking flights to and from China. Many companies have already told their staff not to travel to or from China for now. Concerts are being cancelled, and there are calls for the Art Basel Hong Kong art fair to be scrapped too. The list of airlines that have suspended flights to the country (to varying degrees) now includes 19 names.
The official death toll now stands at 213, all within China’s borders. There are almost 9,100 confirmed infections there—more than the global number of infections during the SARS epidemic—and 130 in other countries, with person-to-person transmissions having taken place in Germany, France, the U.S., Vietnam, Japan and Taiwan.
As the WHO’s stance reflects, the situation does not seem likely to improve anytime soon—though the organization did also say that “it is still possible to interrupt virus spread” if countries get their act together. Needless to say, the duration of this crisis will have enormous implications in both human and economic terms.
Economist Andy Xie wrote today in the South China Morning Post that a four-week lockdown in China—the optimist’s scenario—would result in around 2% being shaved off quarterly GDP. Longer crisis, more damage. And all this is coming as U.S. recession warnings resurface in the shape of the by-now-notorious yield curve inversion.
A trivial anecdote that nonetheless hints at the ripple effect we might soon see: Four weeks ago, I ordered a guitar effects pedal from a small manufacturer here in Germany. It still hasn’t arrived—the maker has 70 of the things sitting in his workshop, all built except for the knobs. He gets those from a supplier in China, but the Lunar New Year holiday, extended due to the crisis, has left him empty-handed. So now he’s scrambling to find new suppliers who can deliver.
As I say, a dumb little story on its own. But let’s see where the cumulative effect of this crisis ends up.
More news below. And let me also note that, on this Brexit Day, I feel great sadness—along with other British citizens, I will this evening lose my EU citizenship. As I wrote yesterday, little will change immediately, because of the transition period that runs through the rest of 2020. But today nonetheless carries enormous weight, symbolically and emotionally. I can only hope that the U.K., which now ventures out on its own into a very uncertain global landscape, does indeed find prosperity.
David Meyer@superglaze
david.meyer@fortune.com