The Simpsons fans convinced cartoon predicted Coronavirus in 1993 
 The Simpsons fans are convinced that the show predicted Coronavirus, and no one can deal.

The news has been filled with news of the virus spreading around the world, with more than 200 people dying in China over the outbreak – and patients now being treated in the UK.

And some fans on social media have suggested that the Simpsons creator Matt Groening predicted this all the way back in the 1990s.

If you cast your mind back to Marge In Chains, from 1993, everyone in Springfield gets on the juicing hype, and get about ordering fancy blenders.

However, one of the factory workers in Japan gets sick, coughing all over the blenders before shipping them over to the US.

And, with that, Osaka Flu came to America.

Side note: Health and safety would never.

Right on cue, most of the people in town get sick, thanks to the spread of the Osaka Flu, causing mass chaos that results in Marge getting sent to jail for shoplifting.

And viewers flocked to Twitter in their droves to discuss the similarities between the episode – which aired 27 years ago, and what is happening in the present day – appearing to forget that Osaka is in Japan, and Coronavirus is thought to have originated in Wuhan, China.

Some are so convinced they even took the time to edit ‘Osaka flu’ to Coronavirus in Kent Brockman’s news report.

‘The Simpsons, 1993, this goddamn series predicted coronavirus. My mind is blown,’ one said.

While another commented: ‘The Simpsons scares me. This episode aired 27 years ago in 1993 #CoronaVirus

‘The Simpsons predicted everything including the corona virus I’m so scared,’ a follower posted.

As a Twitter user added: ‘#coronavirus Simpsons had WARNED to global 27 years ago regarding CORONA VIRUS (sic).’

We might put this one down to a coincidence…

The infection isn’t the only thing the cartoon has ‘predicted’ in the 31 years the show has been on the air.

In fact, eagle-eyed fans claimed they prophesised Ebola, Donald Trump’s presidency, the World Cup result and Lady Gaga’s Super Bowl performance – as well as the winners of the competition for three years in a row.

MORE: Harry Styles and Lizzo finally perform Juice together and it’s everything we wanted and more