The club of $1 trillion companies is about to gain a fifth member 
 London (CNN Business) A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here .

And then there were five. After a blockbuster earnings report, Amazon is poised to reenter the growing club of $1 trillion public companies when US markets open on Friday — joining, Saudi Aramco andat the top of the heap.

Amazon's beat: blew away Wall Street's expectations when it reported earnings for the holiday quarter on Thursday, my CNN Business colleague Clare Duffy reports. The company posted profits of $3.3 billion. Analysts had expected $2 billion. Revenue, meanwhile, jumped 21%.

Big number: A record 150 million people now subscribe to Amazon Prime. That's a positive sign for the company's expensive efforts to roll out one-day shipping in the United States.

Shares are up 8.5% in premarket trading. If that holds, Amazon will jump back above a $1 trillion valuation, a level it first surpassed in 2018

"Every time you look at a new set of Amazon numbers there seems to be something new to get excited about," he said, pointing to growth in Amazon's fledging efforts to sell directly to businesses.

See here: If Amazon shares open up as much as expected, the company could soon approach the same value as Germany's entire benchmark stock index ($1.15 trillion).

Hyett points out that these companies aren't as monolithic as they may seem at first blush. Amazon has the characteristics of a retailer, Google dominates in marketing and Microsoft makes software — all distinct parts of the tech universe, he notes.

Still, it means the US stock market is heavily exposed to a specific type of company: one with a marquee credit rating that is focused on high growth. "Should we have a shift in the ratings environment, that's going to really hurt the whole market, just because of the percentage they contribute," Hyett said.

Details, details: Rometty will be succeeded by Arvind Krishna, who is currently senior vice president for cloud and cognitive software. Jim Whitehurst, the Red Hat CEO who many thought would take Rometty's job, will become IBM's president. Rometty will remain executive chairman of IBM until her retirement at the end of the year.

Shares of IBM are up nearly 4% in premarket trading on the news.

No surprise: Rometty, who is 62, was expected to retire soon, since previous IBM chiefs had stepped down around the age of 60, my CNN Business colleague Paul R. La Monica reports. Krishna is 57 and Whitehurst is 52.

But her departure means that the ranks of women who run large companies will grow even smaller. There were only 33 women CEOs in charge of Fortune 500 firms as of last year, including Rometty.

"Even though IBM's stock performance was more volatile than desired by Wall Street, she left a lasting mark on one of the cornerstone American companies," said Tim Hubbard, a professor at Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business and a former IBM consultant. He called Rometty "one of the most prestigious female CEOs of the past decade."

The coronavirus outbreak is now an international emergency

Investors initially took some comfort in the WHO declaration, since it could help mobilize resources to keep the virus contained. But the situation is clearly volatile.

Oil monitor: Brent crude, the global benchmark for oil prices, rose 0.6% to $58.61 per barrel on Friday. It's still on track for its worst month since May amid concerns about how coronavirus could knock economic growth, and therefore demand.

Coming next week: China's stock markets reopen as coronavirus continues to batter the country's economy.