Inside coronavirus quarantine unit awaiting 83 Brits as nurse tells of 'panic' 
 More than 80 Britons rescued from the coronavirus epicentre are set to be cut off from the outside world for two weeks.

The evacuees, who are flying to an RAF base in Oxfordshire from the Chinese city of Wuhan, will be quarantined at an NHS facility in the Wirral.

Boredom is just one of the dilemmas that could arise as they spend 14 days in isolation while being monitored for signs of the SARS-like virus, which has killed more than 210 people in China.

Hours before their arrival, televisions, computers, fridges and other equipment were moved into a former student accommodation block at Arrowe Park Hospital in Upton, Merseyside, where they will remain until mid-February.

Pictures show how staff at the hospital worked around the clock to get the facility ready for the new arrivals.

Earlier today, it emerged two patients are being treated for coronavirus in Newcastle in the UK's first confirmed cases.

Are you among the Britons being quarantined? Have you been affected by coronavirus? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.

One woman, whose relative is currently a patient at Arrow Park, told the the Liverpool Echo: "New TVs arriving for the quarantined people.

"They have also brought washing machines in.

Staff at Arrowe Park hospital described their "panic" after being told about the news.

One nurse, who did not want to be named, said: "Most staff heard it on the news first which is terrible, panic is the word I would use. At least warn your staff before the news, also the Wirral population are worried also.

"No-one's happy about it and they says it's airborne, so how are they getting from the airport to the accommodation?"

After several delays departing Wuhan, the repatriation flight, carrying 83 UK citizens and 27 foreign nationals, finally took off at 9.45am local time on Friday.

It is expected to land at RAF Brize Norton at 1pm local time.

When it touches down, the Britons will be screened for symptoms of the flu-like virus.

Those who test negative will be taken on a three-hour bus ride to the residential block at Arrowe Park to begin the two-week quarantine.

Anyone with suspicious symptoms will be taken to the Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen Hospital, which has a high-level infectious diseases unit.

The plane will then take off from Brize Norton with the foreigners, mostly from EU countries, for an airport in Spain, where EU countries will process the non-British evacuees.

At Arrowe Park, the evacuees will have access to the internet so they can communicate with their families and friends.

Janelle Holmes, chief executive of Wirral University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, confirmed the site would be used to quarantine people from China in an email to staff last night.

It says: “Dear colleagues, You will be aware of the current situation in Wuhan City, China and the novel coronavirus outbreak.

"While there are no confirmed cases in the UK, I am writing to you to inform you of some next steps.

"Around 100 British citizens will be travelling to the UK from China tomorrow.

"As a precaution they will remain in isolation for 14 days following their arrival in the UK.

"We will be welcoming and housing them in the accommodation block at Arrowe Park Hosptial.

Earlier today it was confirmed that two members of the same family were Britain's first confirmed cases of coronavirus.

The two patients who have tested positive for coronavirus in England are in a high consequence infectious disease unit in Newcastle, said Professor Chris Whitty, chief medical officer for England.

He said: “We can confirm that two patients in England, who are members of the same family, have tested positive for coronavirus.

"The patients are receiving specialist NHS care, and we are using tried and tested infection control procedures to prevent further spread of the virus.

Anyone who comes to the UK from anywhere in China and shows any symptoms associated with the coronavirus should "self-isolate" for 14 days, Prof Whitty said