Bill Gates predicted coronavirus-type pandemic in Netflix documentary 
 Bill Gates predicted a coronavirus-style pandemic would sweep the population in a Netflix documentary.

The Microsoft tycoon talked about a virus breaking out, in one episode of the Explained series aired late last year.

He warned of the likelihood of a virus forming in one of China’s wet markets – exactly like the one in Wuhan where coronavirus is believed to have originated.

Bill said mankind are ill-prepared to contain a pandemic and warned it could ‘kill millions of people’.

In the episode, titled The Next Pandemic, producers visit a wet market in Lianghua, China, where animals are killed and their meat is sold in the same place.

‘All the while, their viruses are mixing and mutating, increasing the odds that one finds its way to humans,’ the documentary explains.

Bill said the world is ill-equipped to deal with a viral disease when scientists are often years away from discovering a cure.

‘If you think of anything that could come along that would kill millions of people, a pandemic is our greatest risk,’ he said.

He said we need to better prepare for pandemics otherwise the world will look back and wish it had invested more into vaccine research.

At least 213 people have died in China due to the outbreak – most in Hubei province – with almost 10,000 cases nationally.

Another 98 cases have been confirmed in 18 countries outside China, eight involving human-to-human transmission in Germany, Japan, Vietnam and the US.

The first case of the deadly virus has cropped up in the UK, with two people testing positive.

Following the announcement, the risk level in the UK has gone from low to moderate.

More than 80 Britons on the evacuation flight out of Wuhan – the epicentre of the outbreak – are due to land in the UK this afternoon.

MORE: Harry Styles and Lizzo finally perform Juice together and it’s everything we wanted and more

MORE: Demi Lovato was ‘super nervous’ coming out as ‘sexually fluid’ to her parents