Hero milkman stabbed by teenage thugs who tried to steal his float...then did the school run three hours later 
 A HERO milkman was stabbed by teenage thugs who tried to steal his float today - before doing the school run three HOURS later.

The brave driver, called Rob, was slashed in the stomach as he carried out his round this morning in Tarporley, Cheshire.

2

 The brave driver, called Rob, was slashed in the stomach as he carried out his round this morning in Tarporley, Cheshire
The milkman dad was jumped by two yobs, believed to be 15 and 16, who tried to steal his load as he drove around in the early hours of this morning.

Rob, 31, told SunOnline: “They jumped out of the bushes and then asked for a lift.

“I have no idea what they had on them, one tried to grab some milk so I confronted him and then the other one grabbed me from behind and stabbed me in the stomach.”

Rob is not sure what weapon they used but the cowardly pair fled the scene empty handed at 4.45am.

He added: “They just shouted leave it, let’s go.”

I should have gone to the hospital but I didn’t, I had stuff to do, I had to get the kids to school.
Rob

But instead of getting his bloody wounds checked out by hospital doctors, he got patched up at the side of the road and shrugged off the attack to get his kids to class.

Rob, who wanted to finish his round, said: “I panicked after, because where I was is the middle of nowhere and there was quite a lot of blood.

"But it was one of those where it looked worse than it was.

“I should have gone to the hospital but I didn’t, I had stuff to do, I had to get the kids to school.”

'GET THIS SCUM CAUGHT'

The milkman’s employer Briscoes Dairy has now called on anyone with information to come forward.

They wrote on Facebook: “Rob has a nasty wound to the stomach but he is ok and even wanted to finish off his round.

“Let’s get this scum caught and off the streets.”

Rob has a nasty wound to the stomach but he is ok and even wanted to finish off his round.
Briscoes Dairy spokesman

Cheshire Constabulary said Rob was treated for his injuries at the scene of the assault.

A spokeswoman said: “Just before 5am today officers were called following reports of a man being stabbed on Eaton Road, Tarporley.

Breaking



KILLER virus IN BRITAIN
 Coronavirus hits UK as TWO patients are quarantined in Newcastle 

CAM OFF IT!
 Builder, 53, says Megxit is cover-up to hide that he's Charles  Camilla's son 

DESPERATE SEARCH
 Mum, 33, vanishes with her baby  three kids aged 4, 12 and 13 in Reading 

HORROR SMASH
 Lad, 19, is killed in head-on crash as his twin brother left fighting for life 

Comment


OUR TIME HAS COME
 Today at 11pm the great people of the UK will finally get Brexit done 

Exclusive


RIPOFF TIDE
 Jet-setting surfer 'got £27k benefits after claiming she couldn't wash herself' 







“It is believed that two males attempted to steal some milk before the incident.

“The man is believed to have sustained minor injuries and was treated at the scene by paramedics.”

Anyone with information should call 101 quoting IML 625126.

2



We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.