Hong Kong unions threaten strikes unless border is closed 
 Hong Kong unions have threatened strikes unless the border with mainland China is closed to stop the spread of coronavirus.

Unions say workers on the Hong Kong metro are 'in a panic' because of the risk of being infected while at work.

Hospital workers' union HAEA has also called for the entire border to be closed, saying strike action could begin as early as next week.

The crisis poses a fresh challenge for Hong Kong's embattled leader Carrie Lam, who has so far resisted calls to shut the border.

However, the high-speed rail service to mainland China and all cross-border ferry services have been suspended since midnight last night.

Several countries have taken steps to contain the outbreak by closing their borders or advising against travel to China.

Chris Cheung, treasurer of the HAEA hospital union which has more than 18,000 members, said many of them planned to begin phased strike action next week.

'There is still a considerable distance from our goal of full-scale preventive measures of infection control,' the union said in a statement.

Metro workers' union Railway Power said 'front-line colleagues are in a panic' because of the virus outbreak.

Twelve people are known to have been infected by the virus in Hong Kong, which is a special administrative zone of China.

Of those, about half arrived via the newly built high-speed train terminal that connects the city to the Chinese mainland.

The epicentre of the outbreak is the central Chinese city of Wuhan, where it is believed to have jumped to humans from an animal in an illegal wildlife market.

Hong Kong chief executive Carrie Lam has said it is 'inappropriate and impractical' to close the entire border.

The health scare comes after months of violent anti-government protests in Hong Kong, sparked by fears that its autonomy is being eroded by Beijing.

Protesters have formed dozens of unions as a way to press their campaign and several of them have come out in support of the HAEA's proposed strike.

Hong Kong residents have also been scouring shops for face masks and joining long queues as supplies dwindle.

Berry So, a waiter, said he had queued up for more than six hours outside one shop but failed to get his hands on a mask.

'I've been waiting six to seven hours,' said So, who failed to get a mask.

Hong Kong has also extended the suspension of schools and kindergartens until March 2 at the earliest.

Many countries have imposed restrictions in an effort to contain the outbreak which has so far killed 213 people, according to official figures.

Japan today urged its citizens to avoid non-essential travel to China, following similar warnings by Germany, Britain and other nations in recent days.

The United States has gone further, warning against travel to China for any reason.

A series of airlines including British Airways have suspended flights to mainland China because of the outbreak.

Mongolia has halted cross-border traffic with its neighbour China and Russia sealed its remote far-eastern frontier.

Some countries banned entry for travellers from Wuhan, the city in central Hubei province where the virus first surfaced.

Italy and Israel on Thursday barred all flight connections with China, while Papua New Guinea went so far as to bar all visitors from 'Asian ports'.