Ashley Roberts emerges with Pussycat Dolls after split from Giovanni Pernice 
 The Pussycat Dolls reunion has been a long time coming, and Ashley Roberts isn’t about to let a break-up get in the way of promo.

It was confirmed yesterday that Ashley, 38, and Strictly Come Dancing’s Giovanni Pernice, 29, have split up after a year of dating.

But Ash put the split to the back of her mind as she hung out with bandmates Nicole Scherzinger, Kimberly Wyatt, Carmit Bachar and Jessica Sutta in London.

The Pussycat Dolls – who officially reunited by performing a much-complained about routine on The X Factor: Celebrity – continued their promo tour ahead of the release of new single React by dropping by Global’s studios in Leicester Square.

The girls arrived at the station holding hands, with all of them ready for business in trousers and jumpsuits.

Ashley wore a pair of black vinyl trousers and a white t-shirt, while she rocked a grey blazer and a pair of heels to finish the look.

The former Strictly finalist was all smiles as she posed with the band, who seem to be providing support during this tough time.

On Thursday night, the Don’t Cha singers were seen leaving Bagatelle restaurant after enjoying a girls’ dinner.

Giovanni confirmed on social media that he and Ashley had parted ways after a year together, writing: ‘Ash and I have made the decision to separate as a couple. We remain friends and wish each other well for the future.’

Both stars have wiped pictures of each other from Instagram in a major cull.

The split comes after Gio spent Christmas in the States with his girlfriend’s family, with the couple then jetting off to Thailand together.

Ashley recently discussed her efforts to freeze her eggs, which did not work.

She told Heart: ‘Now I tried to freeze my eggs actually a couple years ago, and I had the bruises as well and was injecting my stomach and it’s awful.

‘Yeah, all the hormones and everything. It actually didn’t work for me which I wasn’t fully aware that that could even happen.’

However, last year, Ashley said she was too busy to start a family, telling You magazine: ‘I guess my biological clock should be ticking. You see these headlines warning you only have so much time and it puts stuff in your head, so I was worried about all that last year. But then I was like, “I’m not even gonna put that out into the universe; if children are meant to be, they’re meant to be”.

‘Now I’m too busy to think about it. Let’s see what next year has in store and take it bit by bit.

‘I feel young inside and if things don’t work out timing-wise, there’s adoption, there are other avenues I can take.’

The Pussycat Dolls are embarking on their comeback tour this April.

MORE: The Simpsons fans convinced cartoon predicted Coronavirus in 1993 and no one can cope

MORE: Harry Styles and Lizzo finally perform Juice together and it’s everything we wanted and more