Wuhan virus: 3 new cases including 1st Singaporean, total at 16 
 A traveller wearing a face mask walks past a Lunar New Year of the Rat display at Changi Airport on 30 January, 2020. (PHOTO: AFP via Getty Images)

SINGAPORE — The Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed three more cases of the Wuhan coronavirus in Singapore on Friday (31 January), bringing the total tally in the Republic to 16.

One of the cases is a Singaporean, a 47 year-old female who travelled to Wuhan with her family. She was one of the 92 Singaporeans evacuated from Wuhan on Thursday, and arrived in Singapore on the same day.

The other 15 confirmed cases are Chinese nationals.

This makes Singapore the second country with the highest number of confirmed cases outside mainland China, behind Thailand. The novel coronavirus, or 2019-nCoV, has spread to 21 territories beyond mainland China, sickening close to 10,000 people and claiming the lives of 231.

The World Health Organization declared a global emergency over the new coronavirus on early Thursday (GMT), after initially downplaying the threat posed by the disease.

On Friday, the Multi-Ministry Taskforce on the Wuhan virus outbreak announced expanded travel curbs in a bid to contain the outbreak.

All China passport holders not residing in Singapore will be barred from entering or transiting through Singapore.

With immediate effect, the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority will suspend the issuance of all forms of new visas to those with China passports. Singapore’s status as a visa-free transit facility for those with China passports will also be suspended.

Previously issued short-term and multiple-visit visas for those with China passports will also be suspended. During this period of suspension, they will not be allowed entry into Singapore.

All new visitors with recent travel history to mainland China within the last 14 days will not be allowed to enter or transit through Singapore, said the Taskforce.

Returning Singaporeans and long-term visa pass holders with similar recent travel history will be allowed to enter, but they will have to get 14 days of Leave of Absence upon returning.

The curbs will take effect on Saturday at 23.59pm.

On Tuesday, the Taskforce announced an earlier set of travel curbs for visitors who had visited Hubei province, home to Wuhan.

Affected passengers who give false or inaccurate information in their travel history may be subject to penalties under the Infectious Diseases Act. A person who is convicted under the Act could be jailed up to six months and/or fined up to $10,000.

MOH has already started contract tracing for recent travellers to Hubei who are already in Singapore. There are an estimated 2,000 of them, with about 1,000 on short-term visas. Should they be assessed to be of high risk, they will be quarantined.

Returning Singaporeans, permanent residents and long-term pass holders with travel history to Hubei in the last 14 days will be quarantined, as will returning permanent residents and long-term pass holders with Chinese passports issued in Hubei.

On Thursday, 92 Singaporeans arrived home safely from Wuhan via Scoot flight TR121.

Separately, the MOH has advised Singaporeans to defer all travel to Hubei, and all non-essential travel to mainland China.

The novel strain belongs to the same family of coronaviruses as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which killed nearly 800 people globally during a 2002-2003 outbreak and also started in China.

It likely originated from Wuhan’s Huanan Seafood Market, where live animals or products – such as foxes, wolf puppies, giant salamanders, snakes, porcupines, and camel meat – are sold.

Patients suffering from the new strain may exhibit fever and symptoms of lower respiratory illness – such as coughing or difficulty in breathing –, as well as pneumonia-like symptoms like a runny nose, sore throat, and headache.

However, some who have died from it have not displayed symptoms of fever according to details released by China’s National Health Commission, potentially complicating global efforts to check for infected travellers as they arrive at airports and other travel hubs.

This means that temperature screening, the most common measure being used at transport links and airports to check travellers, may not identify some infected people.