Coronavirus: EU mobilises €10 million for research 
 It has launched an emergency request for expressions of interest for research projects that will advance our understanding of the novel coronavirus epidemic, contribute to more efficient clinical management of patients infected with the virus, as well as public health preparedness and response.

Mariya Gabriel, Commissioner for Innovation, Research, Culture, Education and Youth, said:

Stella Kyriakides, Commissioner for Health and Food Safety, said

The Commission has launched this action as the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the new coronavirus outbreak a public health emergency of international concern. The disease continues to spread in China and beyond, with the first cases reported in Europe. The Commission is working closely with the WHO and other international actors to ensure a rapid, efficient and coordinated European and global response to the outbreak.

The funding is expected to support two to four research projects. The Commission is using all means at its disposal in order to enable research work to start as soon as possible. Applicants have until 12 February, i.e. only two weeks, to respond (compared to three months normally) and grant agreements should also be signed very quickly. Grants will be subject to rapid data-sharing clauses to ensure that authorities can apply research findings immediately in their response. This rapid action is made possible by a provision of Horizon 2020 for the "Mobilisation of research funds in case of public health emergencies".

Several EU-funded projects are already contributing to preparedness and response to the 2019-nCoV outbreak, for example:

Coronaviruses (CoV) are a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV).

Chinese authorities have identified a cluster of novel coronavirus 2019-nCoV infections in Wuhan City, China. Cases have now been detected in several countries in Asia, but also in Australia, Europe and North America. The novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) is a new strain that has not been previously identified in humans.

As of 30 January 2020, 7824 laboratory-confirmed cases of 2019-nCoV have been reported, including 170 deaths. The disease has already spread to 19 countries outside China, with new cases continuing to emerge daily.