How likely is someone to die from coronavirus? 
 Coronavirus, which originated in Wuhan, China, was officially declared a global health emergency by the World Health Organisation this week after the death toll continued to rise and a growing number of countries around the world reported confirmed cases.

The virus has now spread to every region in mainland China as well as at least 19 other territories outside the country including the USA, Australia and, as of Friday January 31, the UK.

Two patients have now tested positive for coronavirus in England and are ‘receiving specialist NHS care’ according to the Chief Medical Officer for England, Chris Whitty.

At time of writing, the NHS still state that the risk of getting coronavirus in the UK is low.

Chinese authorities have reported around 10,000 confirmed cases of coronavirus and 213 deaths from the illness so far.

The World Health Organisation reported on Wednesday that the death rate of the virus currently stands at 2 per cent.

Although anyone can catch coronavirus, WHO advise that older people, especially those with pre-existing medical conditions such as asthma, diabetes and heart disease, are ‘more vulnerable to becoming severely ill with the virus.’

To protect yourself from coronavirus, advice from The World Health Organisation includes: ‘Standard recommendations to prevent infection spread include regular hand washing, covering mouth and nose when coughing and sneezing, thoroughly cooking meat and eggs.

‘Avoid close contact with anyone showing symptoms of respiratory illness such as coughing and sneezing.’

The early symptoms of the Wuhan Coronavirus include a dry cough, a high temperature or fever, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing and a sore throat.

If you develop symptoms including a high temperature, cough, runny nose, sore throat or difficulty breathing, the NHS advises that you stay at home, avoid public transport, work places and schools.

The NHS go on to state: ‘Do not leave your home until you have been given advice by a doctor’ if you have symptoms of coronavirus.

To get advice from a doctor without leaving your home, you can use NHS 111.

To get help and advice from NHS 111 if you think you have symptoms of coronavirus, simply use a phone to dial 111.

If you have difficulties communicating or hearing you can call 18001 111 on a textphone.

MORE: Is there a vaccine for coronavirus and how can you cure it?

MORE: Hospital waiting room evacuated after staff ID two possible coronavirus cases