What happens to UK coronavirus patients after deadly disease is confirmed? 
 The first cases of killer coronavirus have been confirmed in two patients in the UK.

A frantic search is now underway to find anyone who may have come into contact with the patients – who are members of the same family.

The pair are now in isolation and being treated by a specialist infectious disease team in Newcastle after being diagnosed and transferred there overnight.

The Department of Health has so far declined to say where in England the patients are from.

Authorities have said the NHS is ‘extremely well-prepared’ for cases of the Wuhan novel coronavirus.

Chief Medical Officer for England Professor Chris Whitty said: ‘We have been preparing for UK cases of novel coronavirus and we have robust infection control measures in place to respond immediately.

‘We are continuing to work closely with the World Health Organization and the international community as the outbreak in China develops to ensure we are ready for all eventualities.’

The new strain of coronavirus – which experts are calling Wuhan coronavirus – is classified as a High Consequence Infectious Disease in the UK.

Public Health England has a range of procedures in place for High Consequence Infectious Diseases.

Once a patient has been confirmed to have coronavirus they will be transferred to one of four treatment centres around the UK.

They are run by:

Once admitted, patients will be kept in total isolation.

They will be treated by a specialist team who will be wearing protective clothing at all times.

Medics in the UK and abroad have been seen treating potential coronavirus patients in hazmat suits.

There will also be a heavy restriction put on patients’ movement while being treated on quarantined wards.

Anybody who has been found to have had contact with the patients will need to be located and tested.

More: Coronavirus arrives in the UK

More: Where is coronavirus in the UK?

More: Hospital waiting room evacuated over coronavirus fears

More: Where Brits will be quarantined for coronavirus

More: Last flight out of Wuhan brings Brits home

Yes. In April 2009, passengers returning from trips to Mexico were the first in the UK to be diagnosed with swine flu.

The virus peaked in July, with the Health Protection Agency reporting more than 100,000 estimated cases worldwide.

The early symptoms of the Wuhan Coronavirus include a dry cough, a high temperature or fever, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing and a sore throat.

While many of those affected have shown only mild symptoms, scans on some patients have shown fluid in the lungs which is consistent with viral pneumonia.

WHO have advised that older people and those with pre-existing medical conditions such as asthma, diabetes, heart disease seem to be more vulnerable to becoming ‘severely ill’.

For more information visit the WHO website.

The World Health Organisation advises people to regularly wash their hands, cover their mouths and noses when coughing or sneezing and thoroughly cook meat and eggs.