Chun-Li cosplayer swaps conventions for treating coronavirus patients 
 Many cosplayers simply dress up as superheroes, but Yuan Herong also goes out there as a real-life one.

In her spare time, Yuan participated in bodybuilding, and cosplays as popular characters including Chun-Li.

On top of this, though, she is a doctor, and has now been doing her bit to help patients of coronavirus.

Muscly Yuan is known for her muscles and has 338,000 followers on the Instagram account where she documents her workout and costumes.

Based in Shandong Province in China, she has revealed a new side to herself recently, sharing pictures and captions from her second life as a physician.

In a recent Instagram post, Yuan said: ‘I’m a doctor. Must [be] on the front line. Do my best to help the epidemic.’

A second post read: ‘171 cases of new pneumonia were cured and 15238 suspected cases were found/

‘The healers are all treated through traditional Chinese medicine and other symptomatic treatment. We will try our best to do a good job in prevention and treatment.’

Between shifts, Yuan has still been posting workout videos, but in many cases has been unable to get to the gym to the outbreak of the virus.

It was reported recently that coronavirus has hit the UK, with two unidentified people being taken into hospital and confirmed to have the virus.

Much of China – where the virus is thought to have originated – is still under quarantine, and many countries have stopped evacuating their own citizens for fear of spreading it further.

For doctors like Yuan, they will be working tirelessly to stem the escalation of the disease. Many of Yuan’s fans wished her well, with one saying ‘Bless you and your fellow doctors. Good luck and best wishes in helping those who are sick,’ and another commenting ‘Thank you for all of your hard work’.

Yuan simply replied to one well-wisher saying: ‘We will try our best, please have confidence in China.’

MORE: This weekend only, you can get cups of Pick ‘n’ Mix from Wilko for just £1

MORE: Circadian health and wellness sabbaticals are set to be big trends in 2020