Fridges and TVs moved into flats where Brits will be quarantined for coronavirus 
 Workers were seen lugging washing machines and televisions into hospital accommodation where Brits will be quarantined after arriving from the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak.

An evacuation flight from the Chinese city of Wuhan carrying around 100 UK citizens is set to land at RAF Brize Norton, Oxfordshire at about 1pm today.

From there they will make their way in convoy to an accommodation block at Arrowe Park, the Wirral, Merseyside, where they will spend the next two weeks in isolation, to stop any spread of the deadly flu-like disease.

As the arrivals are monitored it is understood they will have access to medical staff and internet to make contact with family and loved ones.

Fridges, TVs, and washing machines have been moved into the on-site accommodation (Picture: Liverpool Echo) They will be taken to Royal Liverpool Hospital if they have ‘symptoms suspicious of coronavirus’, authorities have confirmed.

A worker at the hospital has told Metro.co.uk staff were not told they would have to move out until news had been broken that the flats would be used for quarantine.

Shortly after the announcement, people at the teaching hospitals said dozens of electrical appliances were being moved into the building, seemingly in preparation for the patients arriving this afternoon.

In a message to staff last night, Wirral University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust chief executive Janelle Holmes said: ‘Dear colleagues, You will be aware of the current situation in Wuhan City, China and the novel coronavirus outbreak.

‘While there are no confirmed cases in the UK, I am writing to you to inform you of some next steps.

‘Around 100 British citizens will be travelling to the UK from China tomorrow.

‘As a precaution they will remain in isolation for 14 days following their arrival in the UK.

‘We will be welcoming and housing them in the accommodation block at Arrowe Park Hosptial.

‘Before arrival they will be screened for symptoms. If anyone becomes unwell after arrival they will be treated following appropriate protocols.’

It comes as the first two diagnoses of the airborne disease have been confirmed in England., with 9,692 cases across the world and 213 deaths in China.

The UK’s Chief Medical Officers have raised the coronavirus threat level and have urged the Government to prepare for the worst after the World Health Organisation declared the outbreak as a global emergency.

A Number 10 spokesman said the flight, which has military medics on board, is carrying around 50 foreign – mainly EU – citizens.

After UK nationals are dropped off at Brize Norton, the plane, which was charted from a Spanish company, will return to the continent via Spain.