Should you get a flu shot to help with coronavirus anxiety? 
 CLEVELAND, Ohio -- The flu and coronavirus have overlapping symptoms, and constantly updating headlines about the new disease might make people worry that if they begin to cough, they’ll end up in quarantine.

If worries about coronavirus makes someone take their health more seriously or get a flu shot, that’s a positive effect, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine professor Peter Zimmerman said.

“This public health event is reminding everybody to take whatever kinds of precautionary steps to protect yourself wherever you’re going," Zimmerman said.

The United States had five confirmed cases of coronavirus on Wednesday. U.S. government officials view the threat as low risk, and only if someone has recently traveled to China or come into contact with someone who did would flu symptoms seem suspicious.

Two Miami University students are being quarantined in Oxford, while the CDC tests respiratory serum samples for possible coronavirus. The test can take days.

Symptoms of coronavirus -- including fever, cough and shortness of breath -- may appear in as few as 2 days or as long as 14 after exposure, according to the CDC. Chinese officials say there is evidence of the virus being spread before symptoms show; if that is true, it would make the disease harder to contain.

But while there’s no vaccine for coronavirus, there is for the flu, which has caused at least 15 million cases and killed at least 8,200 people so far this season, according to the CDC. The flu shot is highly recommended by doctors and is particularly helpful for at-risk populations like the elderly and children.

Taking care of your health is always a great idea, said Jane Timmons-Mitchell, a associate professor in Case Western Reserve University’s psychiatry department, but don’t let concerns stop you from going to the grocery store or to work.

The flu shot won’t protect you from coronavirus. But if you get your flu shot, you may be less worried if you start sneezing.

It’s not too late; flu season can last through May. If you do get the flu despite having gotten the vaccine, studies show that severe illness is less likely.