New Products: Is This Aussie Favorite Your Next Superfood? 
 Emily Griffith founded Lil Bucks to bring sprouted buckwheat, to America, after falling in love with ... [+] the cereal in Australia.

  
  Lil Bucks
 

Emily Griffith, the 27-year-old, Chicago-based founder of a new brand called Lil Bucks, has been obsessed with sprouted buckwheat ever since she first tasted it several years ago in a “life-changing” acai bowl in Sidney, Australia.

“This one was so amazing because it had this incredible texture. I loved the crunch and felt amazing after eating it,” said Griffith, who was working as a digital designer for a Sidney advertising agency and indulging her passion for surfing. Griffith later returned to the cafe and pressed them for details about the topping. “That kickstarted my obsession with sprouted buckwheat,” she said.


 
 
  
   Lil Bucks, a crunchy cereal topping made of sprouted buckwheat and other ingredients, comes in three ... [+] flavors with a fourth on the way.

  
  Lil Bucks
 


In Australia, sprouted buckwheat, which they refer to as “activated,” is a common health-food cereal, typically sold in one-pound bags and available at many cafes. Griffith tasted it atop salads and avocado toast and in desserts. 

When she returned to the U.S. and set up her own digital consulting business, she was surprised to see that no one in the health food industry was marketing a sprouted buckwheat product despite the growing interest in plant-based proteins.


 “It became my mission to bring it to the U.S., to make cool packaging and share it with the world,” she told me. Since American consumers aren’t familiar with the term activated, she opted to brand it as sprouted.

In 2018, Griffith launched Lil Bucks in Chicago, bootstrapping the company with $75,000 in savings from her digital design business, and learning all about the consumer packaged goods industry along the way. She debuted her product at a fitness festival, shivering in the city’s 32-degree March weather and handing out all of the samples she had. A year later, in April 2019, she won a competition for a one-year kitchen sponsorship from Bel Brands for a spot at the food and beverage incubator Hatchery Chicago.

 “I did all the branding and design for Lil Bucks, I just love bringing brands to life,” Griffith said. “I wanted to rebrand buckwheat.” 

In the U.S., buckwheat mostly appears in pancakes, soba noodles and buckwheat groats, also called kasha, a staple of Eastern European cuisines. Despite its name, it is not technically a grain; it is actually the seed of a fruit related to rhubarb and sorrel. One of buckwheat’s key selling points is that it’s gluten-free, assuming no cross-contamination. Because it’s grain-free it’s also suitable for paleo diets. Furthermore, it’s low on the Glycemic Index, meaning the carbohydrate doesn’t cause a big spike in blood glucose levels. And it’s high in magnesium and antioxidants.

In December 2019, Griffith raised a friends-and-family round. Until now, she has mostly sold Lil Bucks at local festivals and online, but she’s getting her big break into retail this year. In February, Lil Bucks will launch its sprouted buckwheat cereal in three flavors in the midwest region of Whole Foods Market. Griffith hopes to expand into other Whole Foods regions in the future if the rollout proves successful. Her other line, called Cluster Bucks, is aimed at the snack food aisle rather than the granola section. 

Buckwheat is a highly sustainable crop, which organic farmers often use as a cover crop that’s turned into the soil as “green manure.” 

“The mission of this company is to help motivate farmers in North America to include buckwheat in their crop rotations, rejuvenating the soil,” Griffith said. She has engaged scientists to look for varieties more akin to the buckwheat she sources from an organic grower in China because it doesn’t get mushy when sprouted. 


 
 
  
   Lil Bucks sprouted buckwheat cereal adds crunch and protein to a fruit smoothie

  
  Lil Bucks
 

Given her current reliance on organic buckwheat from China, I sent Griffith a followup question about the coronavirus epidemic, which was declared a global health emergency by the World Health Organization on January 30.

 “The coronavirus epidemic is affecting all parts of the supply chain, from logistics to labor to product quality,” she wrote in an email. “Fortunately we have enough buckwheat to get us through the next year at least (imported long before the outbreaks began), but this only lights even more fire to study the genetics of North American buckwheat to get it sproutable! “

She said they are testing buckwheat from a few Canadian and American farms now. “We also have other sources in Russia, but since we have time until we need another large order of buckwheat we will wait to see how this disease affects our supply chain in different parts of the world in the near to long term.” 

 Lil Bucks exclusively uses organic buckwheat, which is sprouted by a partner in Canada, and then dehydrated to be shelf stable for up to a year. 

I sprinkled some of the matcha-flavored Lil Bucks on my blueberries and oat milk yogurt for breakfast one morning, and loved the crunch and subtle sweetness it added. A quarter cup of offers 150 calories, five grams of fiber, six grams of protein and just two grams of sugar. The sweetness comes from maple syrup. Lil Bucks recommends adding the cereal to everything from eggs to salad to chia pudding.

“My dream is to be the Quaker Oats of sprouted buckwheat,” Griffith said.

Granted, that’s a grandiose goal for a fledgling entrepreneur. She hopes to eventually introduce different product lines and other ingredients with “an amazing sustainability story or crazy health benefits.” 

“I have a zillion ideas, but I’m trying to slow down my entrepreneurial ADD and solidify the product lines we do have,” she said.