Treasury yields erase overnight climb as investors grapple with coronavirus jitters 
 U.S. Treasury yields erased their overnight climb on Friday after coronavirus concerns resurfaced, driving investors back into government paper at the expense of stocks.

The 10-year Treasury yield TMUBMUSD10Y, -2.00%   was up 0.6 basis point to 1.560%, coming down from an overnight high of 1.599%. The 2-year note yield TMUBMUSD02Y, -2.51%   was flat at 1.391%, while the 30-year bond rate TMUBMUSD30Y, -1.33%   was up 0.3 basis point to 2.029%.

The World Health Organization declared the coronavirus as a health emergency of international concern on Thursday. They appeared to calm some investor nerves by praising Beijing’s efforts to contain the outbreak and opposing travel or trade restrictions with China to limit its impact.

But the U.S. contradicted the international agency and advised against all travel to the world’s second largest economy. At least 213 people have died and about 9,700 have been sickened by the novel coronavirus, according to the latest figures from China’s National Health Commission.

Futures for the S&P 500 SPX, +0.31%   and Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, +0.43%   are pointing to a lower start for U.S. stocks on Friday.

Read: Here’s the daring way Europe’s largest fund manager is reacting to the coronavirus outbreak

Investors will also handle U.S. inflation data and a snapshot of U.S. consumption. Personal consumption expenditures for December are due for release at 8:30 a.m. ET, followed by the Chicago purchasing managers’ index for January at 9:45 a.m. The University of Michigan’s consumer sentiment index will be released later at 10 a.m.

Data from the eurozone showed the economic bloc grew a seasonally adjusted 0.1% in the fourth quarter, with gross domestic product expanding by 1% year over year. Analysts were looking for 0.2% quarterly growth.

“Yesterday afternoon’s brief risk-on seems to be dissipating already, with U.S. futures and European equities all lower, though Asian markets were admittedly more mixed. So yields are once more falling,” wrote rates analysts at NatWest Markets.