Deadly coronavirus spreads to UK 
 Two people have tested positive for the coronavirus in the United Kingdom – Britain’s first cases since the deadly outbreak began in China last month.
British health officials made the announcement on Friday morning, insisting the country was “extremely well-prepared” for the novel virus and working closely with the World Health Organisation (WHO).
“We can confirm that two patients in England, who are members of the same family, have tested positive for coronavirus,” the Chief Medical Officer for England, Chris Whitty, said in a statement.
Mr Whitty added the patients were receiving specialist care, including “tried and tested infection control procedures to prevent further spread of the virus”.
“We have been preparing for UK cases of novel coronavirus and we have robust infection control measures in place,” he said.
Local news reports said the two patients were being treated at a hospital in Newcastle, in northeast England, though health officials declined to confirm the location, citing patient confidentiality.
ALMOST 10000 PEOPLE INFECTED
The WHO declared the SARS-like virus an international public health emergency on Friday.
The declaration means there will be a greater focus on a global response, with WHO fearful of what could happen if the virus reaches countries ill-prepared to cope with high infection rates.
RELATED: Scary way coronavirus is spread
The epidemic has so far infected almost 10000 people and killed 213, according to China’s National Health Commission.
A growing number of cases have been reported in at least 19 other countries, including Australia.
Several countries have now tightened travel restrictions to China, including the United States, Japan and Iran.
Singapore said it was suspending entry to travellers with a recent history of travel to China and suspending visas for Chinese passport holders. The ban, effective on Saturday, will also apply to those transiting Singapore, a major travel hub.
Italy’s government decided to declare a state of emergency and stopped all air traffic with China after announcing its first cases, in two Chinese tourists.
The WHO has reported at least eight instances of human-to-human transmission in four countries: the United States, Germany, Japan and Vietnam. Thailand said on Friday it too had a case of human-to-human transmission.
Some airlines have stopped flying to mainland China, including Air France KLM SA, British Airways, Germany’s Lufthansa and Virgin Atlantic. Others have cut flights.
Several foreign governments evacuating citizens from Hubei are holding them in quarantine for the 14-day incubation period of the virus.
RELATED: Qantas evacuation flight leaving tonight
Australian citizens in China will likely be flown out of Wuhan on a Qantas passenger plane in the early hours of Monday morning.
The evacuees will be flown back to Darwin first before being transported on to Christmas Island in smaller aircraft, where they’ll spend 14 days in quarantine.
– With wires