UK's health chief slams Gwyneth Paltrow's lifestyle brand 
 LONDON (AP) — The chief executive of Britain's National Health Service has criticized Gwyneth Paltrow's lifestyle brand Goop and her new Netflix series, warning it carries “considerable risks to health.”
At an event in Oxford on Thursday, NHS chief Simon Stevens slammed Paltrow's brand for giving prominence to “quacks, charlatans and cranks” in promoting untested treatments like vampire facials and unusually scented candles.
“Gwyneth Paltrow's brand peddles ‘psychic vampire repellent,' says ‘chemical sunscreen is a bad idea,' and promotes colonic irrigation and DIY coffee enema machines,” he said, adding British health authorities have issued advice stating there is no scientific evidence to support such claims.
Paltrow's six-part series, “The goop lab with Gwyneth Paltrow,” was recently made available on Netflix in the U.K.

  
                  
        
          

                                    



  
    
      
        3 PHOTOS

        Gwyneth Paltrow in Banana Republic

        See Gallery

      

    

  


                                  
    
    
                                  
  
  


    

    
                                                    
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                BEVERLY HILLS, CALIFORNIA - SEPTEMBER 19: Gwyneth Paltrow attends Gwyneth Paltrow And Kerry Washington Host A Live Episode Of The goop Podcast with Banana Republic at Spring Place on September 19, 2019 in Beverly Hills, California. (Photo by Stefanie Keenan/Getty Images for goop)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                BEVERLY HILLS, CALIFORNIA - SEPTEMBER 19: Gwyneth Paltrow (L) and Kerry Washington speak during Gwyneth Paltrow And Kerry Washington Host A Live Episode Of The goop Podcast with Banana Republic at Spring Place on September 19, 2019 in Beverly Hills, California. (Photo by Stefanie Keenan/Getty Images for goop)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                BEVERLY HILLS, CALIFORNIA - SEPTEMBER 19: Gwyneth Paltrow speaks during Gwyneth Paltrow And Kerry Washington Host A Live Episode Of The goop Podcast with Banana Republic at Spring Place on September 19, 2019 in Beverly Hills, California. (Photo by Stefanie Keenan/Getty Images for goop)

                              

            

          

              
      

      
        
          
        
      
      
        
          
        
      
      
        
          
        
      
      
        
          
        
      

      

    

    
      HIDE CAPTION

      SHOW CAPTION

      
    


    

  




Stevens warned about the potential of misinformation to undermine public health, citing the recent surge in measles across Britain. Scientists have attributed the disease's rise in part to falling vaccination rates, first prompted by skepticism about the vaccine suggested in a discredited scientific study in a 1998 medical study that linked the shot to autism.
A spokeswoman for Goop said the company “takes efficacy and product claims very seriously" and noted it has a legal and compliance team that works with their science and research group to vet product claims.


        
    More from Aol.com:
                                    
Helicopter removed from Super Bowl ad featuring Chrissy Teigen, John Legend in wake of Kobe Bryant's death
                                    
Coronavirus hits cruise lines: 'Every lost voyage' could cost $4 million in revenue
                                    
Chipotle fined $1.3M over thousands of child labor abuses