Coronavirus family members who tested positive were Yorkshire hotel guests 
 Two family members who have tested positive for coronavirus are understood to have been staying at hotel in Yorkshire, Mirror.co.uk can reveal.

Public Health England confirmed the deadly virus - which has killed more than 210 people in China - is now in Britain earlier today.

The two patients who have tested positive for coronavirus in England are in a high consequence infectious disease unit at Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary, said Professor Chris Whitty, chief medical officer for England.

An outbreak investigation team has been formed to trace anyone who has been in contact with the pair to prevent the illness spreading.

An NHS source revealed that the two members from the same family were transferred from York to the Royal Victoria Hospital.

Medical chiefs have declined to give any detail on the condition of the two patients confirmed to have the virus, including where they are from and if they had travelled to the UK from China, citing patient confidentiality.

Yesterday, an apartment-hotel in Yorkshire was put on lockdown after a man, believed to be a Chinese national, was taken to hospital after falling ill.

The man, who was a guest at the Staycity Hotel in the centre of York, was taken to hospital by medics on Wednesday night.

Paramedics wearing special protective clothing entered the hotel, near the city's Barbican theatre.

A spokeswoman for the firm said: "Staycity Group have confirmed that a man, believed to be a Chinese national, staying at the group's property in York was taken ill yesterday and is understood to be undergoing tests at a local hospital.

"Paramedics accompanied the man, along with his two travelling companions, out of the property at around 7.50pm last night.

"Following advice from Public Health England we have been advised that the risk is absolutely minimal and that nothing has been confirmed thus far.

"The health and safety of our guests and staff are paramount and as such the apartment containing the group's belongings has been sealed off, after which it will undergo a thorough environmental clean and disinfection, as is company policy."

A hotel guest told the Mirror: "As we went outside we were advised to keep a safe distance from where they were escorting these people out of the hotel."

A spokesman for Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the UK is prepared to deal with the virus, adding that the cases here will be discussed at a Cabinet meeting on Friday.

The announcement that two patients in England have tested positive came as more than 80 British evacuees were being flown to an RAF base in Oxfordshire from Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak in China, and a day after the UK increased the level of public risk from low to moderate.

Prof Whitty said: “We can confirm that two patients in England, who are members of the same family, have tested positive for coronavirus.

Have you been affected by the coronavirus outbreak? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.

The patients are receiving specialist NHS care, and we are using tried and tested infection control procedures to prevent further spread of the virus.

“The NHS is extremely well-prepared and used to managing infections and we are already working rapidly to identify any contacts the patients had, to prevent further spread.

“We have been preparing for UK cases of novel coronavirus and we have robust infection control measures in place to respond immediately.

"We are continuing to work closely with the World Health Organization and the international community as the outbreak in China develops to ensure we are ready for all eventualities.”

Prof Whitty stressed that the two confirmed cases do not increase the risk from the virus to the UK.

He said: "The two cases coming in today do not increase the risk to the UK. The risk comes from the situation in China going out of control despite best efforts by the Chinese government and spreading more widely. So, that is the thing for which we are planning, that is the risk."

He said the virus remains "moderately transmissible" and has a mortality rate of around 2 per cent currently.

This is much lower than other disease outbreaks such as Ebola, which had a 70 per cent mortality rate, and SARS, which had a 10 per cent mortality rate, he said.

He added: "Nevertheless, if we got very large numbers that is obviously a concern and this would be something we would have to take very seriously."

Professor Sharon Peacock, director for national infection service at Public Health England, said: "We were able to stand up an outbreak investigation team immediately and that team is working now, and what they'll be doing is aiming to contact everybody who has been in contact with these two cases and prevent onward transmission."

Anyone who comes to the UK from anywhere in China and shows any symptoms associated with the coronavirus should "self-isolate" for 14 days, Prof Whitty said.

He said said the widening of previous advice was a planned change and is not related to the two confirmed cases.

"If people from China mainland have any symptoms they should self-isolate for 14 days after they have come back from China," he said at a briefing on Friday.

There are four Airborne High Consequences Infectious Disease Centres (HCIDs) in England which are specially equipped to receive people with illnesses such as coronavirus.

These are Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust, Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen University Hospitals NHS Trust, and Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.

More than 160 people in the UK have tested negative for the flu-like virus. Most had recently travelled from Hubei province and its capital Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak.

Italy's Government declared a national emergency after confirming its first two cases, but no such decision was made in Britain.

A rescue flight carrying 83 British citizens and 27 foreign nationals left Wuhan just before 10am local time on Friday morning en route to RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire.

After medical screening, the Britons will be taken to Arrow Park Hospital in the Wirral to be quarantined for 14 days in former NHS student housing accommodation.

Anyone with suspicious symptoms will be taken to the Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen Hospital, which has a high-level infectious diseases unit.

It comes as ministers said the Government will send another plane to coronavirus-hit Wuhan to rescue British citizens if needed