Shoppers amazed that Dettol kills deadly coronavirus - as it's listed on bottles 
 DEADLY coronavirus is so infectious it can be spread via surfaces touched by the sick.

And now some eagle-eyed individuals have found one way you could protect yourself from the bug - Dettol.

One shopper shared a snap of the back of a bottle of the cleaning product, where it reads: "Kills E.Coli, sammonella, MRSA, rotavirus, flu virus, cold viruses, human coronavirus and RSV."

Stunned, he wrote: "This kills coronavirus how did they know about it in 2019?"

It comes as...

And in answer to his question, coronavirus is the name for a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as SARS.

The new coronavirus, 2019-nCoV, is a new strain that has not been previously identified in humans.

It first emerged about a month ago and is thought to have jumped from animals to humans in the Chinese city of Wuhan.

The killer bug can be spread by touching contaminated surfaces, the World Health Organisation (WHO) have warned.

So, Dettol is one way you can protect yourself from getting the new virus - as the global death toll has reached 213 with more than 9,000 cases.

In fact, droplets of the deadly virus can live for up to 45 minutes on these surfaces - long enough for several people to unwittingly pick up the killer germ.

Using Dettol to clean things like worktops can kill the bug before it infects more people.

"There is evidence that the coronavirus can also be spread via fomites — when the virus survives on inanimate surfaces for a short period of time," said Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, a member of the WHO's emergency committee.

Top medics are also urging people to practice good hygiene to reduce your chances of getting the new coronavirus.

Dr Daniel Atkinson, clinical lead at Treated.com, said: "Hygiene is incredibly important to ward off any viruses.

"Make sure to wash your hands thoroughly - for at least 20 seconds - and cover your mouth and nose when you cough or sneeze.

"If you can, avoid contact with sick people and avoid shaking hands with anyone displaying flu-like symptoms."

Chinese authorities are also encouraging people to wear surgical masks to help stop the spread of the new virus.

It comes after it was revealed that coronavirus has hit Britain today with two patients quarantined after testing positive for the illness.

Two members of the same family have been struck down with the virus and are being treated in Newcastle, as the deadly epidemic hits the UK.

It now raises stark fears of more victims across the UK, with a desperate hunt to trace anyone who has been in contact with the pair.

Medical chiefs refused to give any details on the patients - including where they are from and if they came to the UK from China.

HIGH ALERT: Chief Medical Officer confirms two cases of coronavirus in the UK Announcing the two cases in the UK, Chris Whitty, Chief Medical Officer, said: "We can confirm that two patients in England, who are members of the same family, have tested positive for coronavirus. "The patients are receiving specialist NHS care, and we are using tried and tested infection control procedures to prevent further spread of the virus. "The NHS is extremely well-prepared and used to managing infections and we are already working rapidly to identify any contacts the patients had, to prevent further spread. "We have been preparing for UK cases of novel coronavirus and we have robust infection control measures in place to respond immediately. "We are continuing to work closely with the World Health Organization and the international community as the outbreak in China develops to ensure we are ready for all eventualities."

It means England is the 23rd country or territory outside of China to have confirmed coronavirus cases.

Meanwhile, China has its deadliest day yet with the death toll reaching 213 and cases surging towards 10,000.

More than 80 Brits are due to land in the UK later today after a rescue flight left from Wuhan - the Chinese city at the centre of the outbreak.

After several delays, the flight left at 9.45am local time on Friday, carrying 83 Britons and 27 non-UK nationals, mostly from EU countries.

The flight is expected to arrive at the Brize Norton RAF base in Oxfordshire around 1pm.

What is coronavirus and how to spot the symptoms? Coronavirus is an airborne virus, spread in a similar way to colds and the flu. Symptoms include a runny nose, headache, cough and fever, shortness of breath, chills and body aches. It is incredibly contagious and is spread through contact with anything the virus is on as well as infected breath, coughs or sneezes. In most cases, you won't know whether you have a coronavirus or a different cold-causing virus, such as rhinovirus. But if a coronavirus infection spreads to the lower respiratory tract (your windpipe and your lungs), it can cause pneumonia, especially in older people, people with heart disease or people with weakened immune systems. There is no vaccine for coronavirus. In 2003 an outbreak of a similar virus, SARS, infected more than 8,000 people in 37 countries before it was brought under control, killing 800 of those worldwide.

Currently there is no vaccine to protect people against the virus.

But researchers are looking to develop one - and scientists in Hong Kong believe they have managed to come up with one.

Other experts around the world are also looking into producing a vaccination.