Workers in hazmat suits & oxygen tanks seen after student reports 'flu' 
 THIS is the dramatic moment hazmat medics were forced to quarantine a university ⁠— just moments after a student was rushed to hospital after showing "flu-like symptoms".

Terrified students from the University of Bristol watched on from their windows as two people dressed in protective suits marched outside accommodation on Wills Hall, in Stoke Bishop.

Almost mirroring a crime scene, the pair — both equipped with an oxygen tank and flashlight — can be seen heading towards a hazmat unit sealed off by yellow tape

The dramatic footage was shared on social media on Thursday, sparking fears that coronavirus had infiltrated the university — which enrolls over 20,000 students.

Just moments before the medical workers took to the road, a student from the university was rushed to hospital after he showed symptoms similar to the killer flu.

Not willing to take any risks, student accommodations were then dramatically evacuated.

As the battle to contain killer the virus continues, authorities are scrambling to find almost 2,000 people who have landed from the "ground zero" epicentre of Wuhan.

It comes after the World Health Organisation declared the outbreak of the deadly virus a "global health emergency".

Following the announcement, British medical officers increased the risk level in the UK from low to moderate.

Yesterday, the university issued a statement to its students asking them to take extra care.

It read: "Earlier this evening, one of the residents in Wills Hall reported feeling unwell with flu-like symptoms.

"As a precautionary measure, the student has been taken to hospital.

"We are working closely with Public Health England and will continue to monitor the situation and support this student.

"We will provide further updates as they become available, but wish to reassure you that there is no cause for alarm."

But earlier today, it was confirmed that the student was discharged from the hospital.

In a statement issued to Bristol Live, a spokesperson from the University of Bristol, said: “We can confirm that the student taken to hospital last night has now been discharged and there was no diagnosis of Coronavirus.

"We are continuing to support the student, and remind staff and students of the advice from Public Health England.”

Elsewhere, however, it has been confirmed that two patients in Newcastle have been tested positive for coronavirus.

It means England is now the 23rd country or territory outside of China to have confirmed coronavirus cases.

A desperate hunt is now underway to trace anyone who has been in contact with the pair.

Medical chiefs refused to give any details on the patients — including where they are from and if they came to the UK from China.

Health officials say they "are working rapidly to identify any contacts the patients had, to prevent further spread" — amid frantic efforts to stop it spiralling out of control.

It confirms fears the government acted too late to prevent the crisis from hitting Britain, only putting in travel restrictions several days after the outbreak worsened in China.