Parker-Hannifin (NYSE: PH) CEO: LORD Corp. is 'ahead of what we had hoped for' 
 Parker-Hannifin’s integration of Cary’s LORD Corporation is “progressing” ahead of expectations says CEO Tom Williams.


Speaking to analysts on an earnings call three months after the $3.7 billion deal closed, he said LORD “is ahead of what we had hoped for, low single-digit growth and that compares to a minus 6.5 percent for total Parker.”


            
            
        “So it’s doing what we wanted,” Williams told analysts. “It’s more resilient.” 


He called out LORD’s structural adhesives business as a standout at Parker-Hannifin (NYSE: PH), “doing quite nicely,” and offsetting Lord’s weaknesses. 


“I’m really happy with what they’re doing… and that’s even factoring in some weakness in Asia tied to the coronavirus,” Williams said.  


Parker-Hannifin commenced a management shakeup when the deal closed, one that impacted seven of LORD’s eight officers, including its former CEO, Ed Auslander. But the firm has maintained that life for Lord’s Cary employees won’t change. 


“The key target needs to be, and continues to be – before and after the closing of the deal – is to take care of the customers that were developed over many years,” Berend Bracht, the vice president of operations for engineering tapped with leading integration, said in November. 


And Parker-Hannifin has committed to keep much of the business in Cary, where Lord was headquartered. That includes three global business lines: Elastomer Process Materials, the division behind LORD’s Chemlok brand; its Assembly and Protection Solutions business (APS), which is behind LORD’s thermal materials and structural adhesives products; and its Noise Vibration and Harshness (NVH) unit, described as encompassing all of LORD’s dampening materials and solutions. The Cary operation also continues to lead research and development capabilities. 


Cleveland, Ohio-based Parker-Hannifin reported about $3.5 billion in total revenues for its latest quarter. 


LORD, coupled with Parker-Hannifin’s $1.7 billion buy of Exotic Metals, contributed a combined $286 million in sales, CFO Cathy Suever said. The companies are expected to mean $27 million in integration costs in fiscal 2020 and $185 million in one-time acquisition expenses. 


Shares were trading up more than a percent in late trading Thursday afternoon, to $202.18.