Rondon to snub Premier League return and stay in China amid Man Utd interest 
 SALOMON RONDON is set to stay at Dalian Yifang this month.
The Venezuelan striker, 30, had been linked with a return to the Premier League amid the Coronavirus crisis which has delayed the Chinese Super League.
Man Utd target Salomon Rondon is set to stay in China this monthGetty
But SunSport understands any possible switch today for the ex-Newcastle striker is unlikely.
Rondon is currently in Malaga waiting for the rest of his Dalian team-mates to join up for a two-week training camp.
He had emerged as a target to fill Manchester United’s desperate need for a new striker.
Reports suggested Rondon could be available for a loan deal amid China’s ongoing coronavirus crisis.
The Chinese Super League has delayed the new season after the World Health Organisation declared an international public health emergency.

MAN UTD NEWS LIVE: Follow for all the latest on the Red Devils

But Rondon will now be staying put, joining other superstars such as Marouane Fellaini and Oscar who are also caught up in the scare.
United are desperate for a new striker with Marcus Rashford injured for a number of weeks and the team struggling for goals regardless.
They have already failed with a bid for Bournemouth’s Josh King but have launched a second attempt.
And there is also no chance of signing Edinson Cavani from Paris Saint-Germain.
	
		
	
	
		

							

					

											Latest Man Utd news

											
					
					

					
					

					
						


					
			
				
				
			
					
	
	
					
				SAL OVER			
							
				Rondon to snub Premier League return and stay in China amid Man Utd interest			
			
	

	
	





					
			
				
				
			
							
				
					
				
					
	
	
					
				united news			
							
				Man Utd transfer news LIVE - Latest updates from Old Trafford			
			
	

	
	





					
			
				
				
			
					
	
	
					
				BISH BASH BOSH			
							
				Man Utd sign Southend keeper Nathan Bishop on two-and-a-half-year deal			
			
	

	
	





					
			
				
				
			
					
	
	
					
				WONDERBALL			
							
				Cantana dresses as 'The King' as Gallagher plays butler and chauffeur in video			
			
	

	
	





					
			
				
				
			
					
	
	
					
				DANNY BOY			
							
				Man Utd 'made Ings enquiry' with Saints ace wanted to replace injured Rashford			
			
	

	
	





					
			
				
				
			
					
	
	
					
				WANDER OFF			
							
				Furious Man Utd fans set to walk out of Wolves clash in protest against owners			
			
	

	
	


					

					
					

				
			

		
	
	 
	
	
Even ex-Watford man Odion Ighalo is on United’s radar as they look to add to yesterday’s capture of Sporting Lisbon star Bruno Fernandes.
And there’s been no luck with a loan offer for San Lorenzo’s young Argentina international Adolfo Gaich.
Solskjaer even reportedly made an enquiry for Danny Ings earlier in the window, but was immediately rebuffed by Southampton.