Contagion jumps back into film charts amid coronavirus outbreak 
 The Steven Soderbergh thriller Contagion has shot back into the charts nine years after its release following the outbreak of coronavirus.

The 2011 movie – starring Matt Damon, Gwyneth Paltrow, Kate Winslet, Marion Cotillard, Bryan Cranston, Laurence Fishburne, Jude Law and Jennifer Ehle – jumped to number 10 on the iTunes movie rental chart this week, alongside newer movies like Joker, Downton Abbey, Ad Astra and Hustlers.

A nine-year-old movie jumping into the charts is quite strange, but reading the synopsis, it’s easy to understand while it’s back in people’s minds.

Contagion sees a woman, played by Gwyneth Paltrow, return to the States from a work trip in Hong Kong with cold-like symptoms, only to die in hospital two days later.

Her son also dies, but her husband, played by Matt Damon, is somehow immune.

Contagion was inspired by the SARS epidemic of 2003 and swine flu, and was praised by scientists for its accurate depiction of a virus outbreak, with its screenwriter Scott Z Burns previously consulting with representatives from the World Health Organisation.

The similarities of the film and the current coronavirus outbreak – the virus starting in China, for example – obviously have people eager to watch Contagion almost a decade after its release.

Two people in the UK have tested positive for coronavirus, which is believed to have originated in Wuhan in China.

At least 213 people have died in China due to the outbreak – most in Hubei province – with almost 10,000 cases nationally.

Another 98 cases have been confirmed in 18 countries outside China, eight involving human-to-human transmission in Germany, Japan, Vietnam and the US.

As the crisis worsens, China’s state broadcaster has called off its live red carpet coverage of the Academy Awards.

Meanwhile, the country’s biggest Chinese New Year films have been pulled, with film and TV shoots being shut down.

MORE: British Wuhan evacuees arrive back in UK as first coronavirus case is confirmed

MORE: Katie Price is ‘focusing on rebuilding her empire’ rather than men as she searches for quotes about being single