Britain Confirms First Coronavirus Cases As Outbreak Spreads Globally 
 Passengers arrive at Heathrow Airport in London after the last British Airways flight from China ... [+] touched down in the UK earlier this week

  
  PA Images via Getty Images
 

Topline: Britain confirmed its first two coronavirus cases on Friday as 83 U.K. citizens were airlifted out of Wuhan, the city at the heart of the outbreak of the pneumonia-like disease that has now killed at least 213 people and infected nearly 10,000.



 The two patients, who tested positive for the virus, are members of the same family but their whereabouts have not been revealed to protect their confidentiality.

 Chris Witty, England’s chief medical officer said the individuals were receiving specialist NHS care, adding that the health service is “extremely well-prepared.”

 A plane carrying 83 British citizens and 27 foreign nationals from Hubei province, where Wuhan is located, is due to land at a Royal Air Force base in the U.K. on Friday after an initial delay. Passengers will be quarantined at NHS premises in Newcastle, England, for up to two weeks.

 The new coronavirus, formally called the 2019-nCoV, was declared a global health emergency by the World Health Organization on Thursday. 

 The U.S. has now advised against all travel to China, while the U.K. has raised the risk level from low, to moderate. Singapore, one of China’s biggest trading partners, has shut its borders to visitors from the mainland, while Russia has closed its border with China.

 Jeans brand Levi’s has closed half its stores, joining Ikea, McDonalds, Starbucks, Pizza Hut, KFC among the chains to temporarily close their doors in China.




Big number: More than 9,800 people are confirmed to have been infected with coronavirus while there are 15,000 suspected cases, according to Chinese health officials. At least 20 countries have recorded cases of the virus including: Australia, Cambodia, Canada, Finland, France, Germany, India, Japan, Malaysia, Nepal, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Singapore, Thailand, South Korea, United Arab Emirates the U.K.  the U.S. and Vietnam, according to the CDC.


It does not appear to be as deadly as the 2003 SARS outbreak, but with nearly 10,000 infections, it is more contagious than the SARS—a respiratory disease also in the coronavirus family—that infected 8,000 people in a major epidemic in 2002-2003.

Key background: The coronavirus outbreak began in Wuhan in December and after a initially slow response the Chinese government has rolled out extraordinary measures including quarantining cities and regions homes to tens of millions of people. Airlines including KLM, British Airways and United have either suspended or cut down flights to mainland china while Hong Kong on Thursday suspended rail and ferry cross-border travel.


Surprising fact: It appears that some are erroneously conflating the coronavirus and Mexico’s Corona beer. Google trends data shows that the search for “beer virus” and “corona beer virus” rose alongside the search for information about the 2019-nCoV strain. The virus is thought to have started in a Wuhan seafood market, and transmitted to humans from an animal. The respiratory illness is spread through infected cough and sneeze droplets.

Further reading: WHO Declares Coronavirus A Global Health Emergency, Praises China’s ‘Extraordinary Measures’ (Lisette Voytko)