UK's 50 best places to live revealed - does your hometown make the list? 
 EAST Hertfordshire has been crowned as the best place to live in Britain, according to a quality of life survey.

Boasting an array of popular market towns, such as Bishop's Stortford and Hertford, East Hertfordshire scooped the top spot after scoring well on several factors.

11


11

 Summer view of the picturesque market town of Buntingford, East HertfordshireCredit: Alamy
Its recognition was also due to strong exam results, high life expectancy, excellent health and happiness scores, and high average earnings.

It was followed by Fareham, Hart and Horsham — all in the South — in the annual Halifax Quality of Life survey.

The South East and the East of England both feature four times within the top 10, while the North also makes the line-up due to Selby and Hambleton, which are ranked sixth and seventh respectively.

Russell Galley, who led the survey, explained that East Hertfordshire was deserving of the top spot after 97% of respondents reported having good or fairly good health.

11

 High Street in the market town of Fareham, situated between Portsmouth and SouthamptonCredit: Alamy
"With bustling market towns and picturesque countryside, East Hertfordshire has topped the table thanks to high life expectancy, good schools and health and happiness scores, with high average earnings," he affirmed.

"Everyone has different priorities when it comes to choosing a place to live, depending on time of life, and personal circumstances.

"Affordability will always be one of the most important factors, with getting a foot on the property ladder still difficult for some people."

East Hertfordshire has topped the table thanks to high life expectancy, good schools and health and happiness scores, with high average earnings
Russell Galley

Geographically, the South East of England — the most populous of the nine official regions — is the best part of the UK to live, with 18 spots cementing a place within the top 50.

But just two London areas make the top 100, Richmond upon Thames (placed at 64) and Kensington and Chelsea (79th).

Exclusive


CASHING IN
 Harry  Meghan to make millions after Megxit sparks SussexRoyal Instagram boost 

'HORRIBLE TRAGEDY'
 Toddler shot in the HEAD 'when gun accidentally fires as parents argue' 

NOT MEG FOR IT
 Meghan 'didn't just jump ship - she capsized it', royal insiders claim 

Exclusive



MORE LUBE!
 OAP's son 'nearly fainted' as she told Holly and Phil about 'saddle sore' romps 

Exclusive


RUMPY PUMPY ROWS
 Son of OAP, 80, says romps with toyboy nearly ripped family apart 

VIRUS MELTDOWN
 Fuming Chinese put SWASTIKA on Danish flag in huge coronavirus cartoon row 







Wales's highest placing is the Vale of Glamorgan at 126th.

Scotland's is Orkney at number 18 overall and Northern Ireland's is Lisburn and Castlereagh at 131.

The 50 best places to live in Britain

1. East Hertfordshire, East of England

2. Fareham, South East

3. Hart, South East

4. Horsham, South East

5. Maldon, East of England

6. Selby, Yorkshire and the Humber

7. Hambleton, Yorkshire and the Humber

8. Babergh, East of England

9. St Edmundsbury, East of England

10. Wokingham, South East

11. Ryedale, Yorkshire and the Humber

12. South Derbyshire, East Midlands

13. South Cambridgeshire, East of England

14. Tonbridge and Malling, South East

15. Rugby, West Midlands

16. Runnymede, South East

17. Wychavon, West Midlands

18. Orkney, Scotland

19. Woking, South East

20. Warwick, West Midlands

21. South Oxfordshire, South East

22. Rushcliffe, East Midlands

23. Huntingdonshire, East of England

24. Newark and Sherwood, East Midlands

25. Rushmoor, South East

26. Forest Heath, East of England

27. Elmbridge, South East

28. Wiltshire, South West

29. Gedling, East Midlands

30. North Dorset, South West

31. Rutland, East Midlands

32. Tewkesbury, South West

33. Rochford, East of England

34. Winchester, South East

35. Bracknell Forest, South East

36. Cherwell, South East

37. Central Bedfordshire, East of England

38. Charnwood, East Midlands

39. Forest of Dean, South West

40. Vale of White Horse, South East

41. West Berkshire, South East

42. New Forest, South East

43. North Warwickshire, West Midlands

44. Guildford, South East

45. Swindon, South West

46. Lichfield, West Midlands

47. Suffolk Coastal, East of England

48. York, Yorkshire and the Humber

49. Basingstoke and Deane, South East

50. Erewash, East Midlands




11

 The bustling town centre in Horsham, SussexCredit: Alamy
11

 The picturesque village of Hartley Witney in Hart, HampshireCredit: Alamy
11

 Selby Abbey, North Yorkshire, the first monastery to be founded in Northern EnglandCredit: Alamy
11

 The Essex town of Maldon on the Blackwater Estuary, with the town and barges visibleCredit: Alamy
11

 St Edmundsbury Cathedral in the early evening, Bury St Edmunds, SuffolkCredit: Alamy
11

 The Town Clock in Hambleton, North YorkshireCredit: Alamy
11

 A welcoming 'Welcome to Wokingham' sign in Wokingham, BerkshireCredit: Alamy
11

 Town Hall in the charming village of Sudbury in Suffolk, East AngliaCredit: Alamy