Face mask shortage hits Europe and US as coronavirus spreads 
 An acute shortage of face masks in Asia caused by fear of the spreading
coronavirus has found its way west, with online retailers, manufacturers and
pharmacies in the US and UK selling out of the products in the past week.

Manufacturers are increasing production to meet surging demand as individuals
and companies scramble to stock up on protective equipment. Nearly 7,800 cases
of the infection have been confirmed worldwide with instances of the respiratory
illness recorded in the US, Canada, France and Germany. 

US group 3M, which supplies the popular N95 respirator, said this week it has
increased production and is “working with distributors to help ensure they have
inventory to meet end-user demand”.

The Minnesota-based company added that the wildfires in Australia and a volcanic
eruption in the Philippines before the coronavirus outbreak had added to supply
pressures. It said it is “monitoring demand and working to help ensure inventory
is available” in those two countries.

SP Services, a UK-based first aid equipment supplier, has experienced two years’
worth of demand in the past week and is looking to source masks from a wider
pool of suppliers.

“The 3M brand is the hot one, the one that everybody wants at the moment,” said
Simon Leggett, managing director of the Telford-based company. 

The Cambridge Mask Company, a UK-based group which manufactures and sells
military-grade filtration masks, is also facing unprecedented demand. Having
received requests for orders from companies based in countries including France
and Puerto Rico ranging between 500,000 to 10m products, the company has
completely sold out.

“It’s crazy — it’s the first time I’ve seen a global scale mask event,” said
Chris Dobbing, chief executive.

The company has increased production at its factories in Xiamen in China and
Batam in Indonesia but has warned customers to be patient. “We’re taking
pre-orders now, but people won’t be able to get masks until the end of
February,” Mr Dobbing added. 

On Thursday China’s cabinet office urged local governments to “rapidly” ensure
companies in their area resume production of medical supplies. Factories have
ramped up production but some admit they will not be able to get their products
to Europe and North America for weeks due to long shipping times. The shortage
has also been exacerbated by the Chinese new year holiday with many workers
taking time off. 

Hong Kong’s chief secretary Matthew Cheung has said that prison inmates in the
territory will work around the clock to produce masks, according to local media. 

The World Medical Association, an international body for doctors, has urged
governments and the World Health Organisation to set up an international supply
chain for supplies to help fight coronavirus. “Gloves, masks, detergents, single
use coats and cloaks are all in short supply,” said Frank Ulrich Montgomery,
chair of the WMA Council. 

CVS, the pharmacy chain with about 9,900 stores across the US, has said it is
working with its suppliers to meet increased demand for protective masks. 

“They’re sold out everywhere,” said one retail assistant at a CVS pharmacy in
Manhattan’s SoHo district. The company pledged to resupply stores reporting
shortages “as quickly as possible”.

“I have never experienced anything this significant,” said Ray Scott, owner of
ATC Medical in Tennessee, an online medical products company. “[Consumers] are
buying any type of mask. At first, they were particular about a certain kind,
but inventory went to zero. Then they started looking at other types of masks,
and that all went to zero.”

Although consumers are stocking up, questions exist over the ability of
disposable medical masks to protect against airborne viruses. 

“There’s no evidence to suggest they do work,” said David Carrington, a
consultant virologist at St George’s, University of London. “[They] can provide
some reassurance but you can’t rely on having protection from simply wearing a
mask.” He recommended wearing masks with filters, regularly washing hands and
limiting physical contact such as cheek kissing and handshakes.