Global Tourism Braces for Hit as Chinese Tourist Arrivals Plunge 
 TEMPO.CO, Jakarta - The global tourism industry, which has long relied on Chinese tourist arrivals, is now bracing for a hit following the spread of the coronavirus in China. The coronavirus outbreak is expected to heavily impact the global tourism industry, as its effects are expected to exceed the SARS pandemic in 2003. From Tokyo to London; hotels, casinoes, airlines, and retail industries have all faced a sharp decline in tourist arrivals in recent weeks, as the Chinese government closed access to and out of the country. In fact, in 2018, around 163 million Chinese tourists were recorded to have visited other countries abroad, thus contributing more than 30 percent to the global tourism retail sales. When the SARS pandemic struck in 2003, only 20 million Chinese tourists traveled overseas. The Chinese economic boom that took place after SARS broke out has made many international cities, luxury good brands and other businesses in the retail industry to grow dependent on the consumption of Chinese tourists. "This is a blow. Chinese tourists continue to travel, shop, and spend their money on beauty products. Chinese tourists are the most important consumers to support the growth of the tourism and retail industries," said Jefferies LLC consumer analyst Stephanie Wissink as quoted on Bloomberg on Friday, January 31, 2020.Based on Jefferies analysis, Chinese tourists spent around US$ 150 billion during the Chinese New Year last year. In another analysis, Generation Research said that the tourism industry grew with a value of US$ 79 billion in 2018 with Asia managing to contribute significantly to the growth.Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia have also beef up their surveillance at the border to tighten the influx of tourists from China, along with the increasing number of patients infected with the coronavirus now reaching 9,800 people. On the other hand, Russia blocked access in and out of their borders with China, while the United States and Japan have also issued travel bans to China.A number of airlines, including British Airways Plc, Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., Delta Air Lines Inc. and American Airlines Group Inc. have all delayed or reduced flights to and from China. Carnival Corp. and Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. also suspended the departure of their cruise ship to China.“People would certainly compare the effect of SARS that occurred in 2003 to the current outbreak of coronavirus. The effect (to global tourism) might be greater than at the time of SARS because the number of Chinese citizens traveling now is more than in the previous period," said Luya You, a transportation analyst with Bocom International.  BISNIS.COMTranslator: Dio Suhenda