Nadia Sawalha recalls fight with sister Julia: 'Breasts would start flying' 
 Nadia Sawalha has opened up about fighting with sister Julia, when they were younger.

The 55-year-old has had a ‘stormy relationship’ with the Absolutely Fabulous actress, previously explaining they have been through periods where they don’t speak to each other.

And, during the latest instalment of Loose Women, she recalled times they would savagely fight when they were younger.

Discussing the memories, she told her fellow panelists: ‘Me and my sisters used to love a good fight, except we’d always end up snapping each other’s bras.

‘You’d be getting hold of stuff and breasts would start flying.’

While she didn’t lift the lid on what would spark the vicious rows, Nadia admitted that herself, Julia and their other sister, Dina, often failed to see the humour in the argument.

‘We never found it funny, we didn’t get to a point where it was funny,’ she continued.

‘We’d just walk away and put ourselves together.’

Nadia previously opened up about their tumultuous bond on Loose Women last year, which Julia later took offence to.

‘My younger sister and I have always had a really stormy relationship. She’s totally amazing,‘ she said.

‘Sorry, it’s emotional. She’s amazing my sister, but we’ve always had a really volatile relationship and have always had periods of time in our lives where we don’t speak.

‘But I also have the worst time or best time in my life with her.’

However, Julia hit out at her sibling, accusing her of using their past for attention.

In a string of posts on social media, which have since been deleted, she fumed: ‘So tired of #nadiasawalha talking about our “stormy” relationship which she created.

‘I’ve kept my privacy for 6 years to protect my family, whilst she talks lies& rubbish.

‘You have destroyed our family so don’t sit on TV with your fake tears to gain sympathy & attention (sic).’

Another post the actress shared – before taking down – read: ‘Yes well it’s very difficult when you only see the story from one side.

‘I’m not actually fighting, she is, but paints a very different picture publicly and I’ve had enough (sic).’

Loose Women continues on weekdays, at 12.30, on ITV.

MORE: Contagion jumps back into film charts nine years after release amid coronavirus outbreak

MORE: Katie Price is ‘focusing on rebuilding her empire’ rather than men as she searches for quotes about being single