Oceania Cruises Unveils 2022 Six- Month, Around-The-World Voyage, Including Japan Immersion 
 Photographer on a round-the-world cruise

  
  Getty
 

With round-the-world cruising and overnight port stops gaining popularity — especially to exotic and unusual destinations — loyal travelers are frequently booking years ahead to secure staterooms.

With this in mind, Oceania Cruises, the culinary- and destination-focused cruise line, has just opened for sale its  2022 Around The World In 180 Days voyage.

A globe-circling journey is one of the ultimate travel experiences, and this 2022 Around the World journey weaves together destinations in the South Pacific, New Zealand, Australia, Asia, Africa and Northern Europe. (How sales will go with the uncertain news of the coronavirus is yet to be felt.)


“Guests will experience a truly unique combination of destinations that includes the South Pacific, Asia, India, and even the British Isles,” stated Bob Binder, President  CEO of Oceania Cruises. “I think guests will be most delighted by the 12-day, nine-port immersion into Japan as well as the lesser known cultural jewels of western Africa.”

Charting a westward route, Insignia sails across the Pacific to Hawaiian Islands, the lagoons of French Polynesia and faraway Fijian enclaves. She continues south towards the fjords and coasts of New Zealand followed by an extensive exploration Down Under, granting travelers time to discover the reefs, capital cities and Aboriginal culture of Australia. 


Guests will have the chance to immerse themselves in the spiritual haven of Bali and Kyoto’s bamboo forests, and new and ancient in cities such as Hong Kong, Shanghai and Yangon. 

More adventures await at African game reserves, vineyards dotting the Cape Winelands, the volcanic landscapes of the Canary Islands and the canals of Amsterdam.

Around-The-World Stats

·       Continents visited: 6

·       Countries visited: 44

·       Time zones crossed: 22

·       Islands visited: 43

·       Ports visited: 91

·       UNESCO World Heritage sites accessible: 68

·       Overnight stays: 19

·       Oceans cruised: 4

·       Seas cruised: 19

·       Numbers of times equator crossed: 2

·       International date line crossed: 1

·       Largest population: Manila, Philippines

·       Smallest population: Akaroa, New Zealand

Events, Overnights and Optional Overland Tours

Guests taking the complete world journey will be offered special preference, from visiting UNESCO World Heritage sites to optional overland tours. Exclusive Shoreside Events range from an overnight at one of Shanghai’s most luxe and architecturally bold hotels to a feast and cultural festivities at the UNESCO-protected Royal Citadel in Hue. 

Optional Packages 

Cruisers can select a package with amenities such as first-class roundtrip airfare, and free pre-paid gratuities, laundry service, onboard medical care, luggage delivery, and pre-cruise luxury hotel stay, along with other free inclusions.

Oceania Cruises has six luxury ships which carry either 684 or 1,250 guests. Besides the 180-day Around the World Voyages, ships call on more than 450 ports across Europe, Alaska, Asia, Africa, Australia, New Zealand, New England-Canada, Bermuda, the Caribbean, Panama Canal, Tahiti and the South Pacific.