Coronavirus live updates: US raises travel warning, Singapore bans Chinese travelers as outbreak spreads 
 Italy declared a six-month state of emergency after two Chinese tourists in the country tested positive for the coronavirus in the first cases detected in the country. The move will enable authorities to make rapid decisions if needed. Italy has already banned all flights to and from China as a precautionary measure. The two patients came from Wuhan, the epicenter of the virus, and fell ill during their trip to Italy.

The number of confirmed coronavirus cases has risen to 9,782 in mainland China, according to Chinese authorities. The new cases in China bring the global total to nearly 10,000 cases with at least 213 deaths. England's chief medical officer also confirmed the first two cases of the coronavirus in the UK, less than 24 hours after the World Health Organization declared the outbreak a global emergency.

Singapore's health ministry has banned entry to all Chinese visitors and foreigners with a recent history of travel to China. The move, which effectively shuts out the island's largest group of visitors, takes effect Saturday. It is the first Southeast Asian country to implement a travel ban to Chinese travelers to contain the outbreak. The announcement comes after the U.S. State Department raised its travel advisory on Thursday for China from Level 3 to Level 4, citing the coronavirus outbreak in that country. The State Department only flags a handful of countries as Level 4, its highest warning "due to a greater likelihood of life-threatening risks."

The film "Enter the Fat Dragon" will premiere via video streaming on Saturday, makers China iQiyi Inc said, after plans for the film's premiere in cinemas were affected by the outbreak of a new coronavirus in China. It will be the second film to debut online because of the outbreak following Huanxi Media Group's decision to premiere "Lost in Russia" on Bytedance's online platforms. Read CNBC's coverage from our Asia-Pacific team overnight: China says coronavirus death toll hits 213 as Britain, Russia report first cases CORRECTION: An earlier version of this article reported an incorrect total number of cases in mainland China as of 7:30 a.m. There were 9,782 cases in mainland China and almost 10,000 across the world at that time.