Grandmother is 'so sorry' she shot her autistic 8-year-old grandsons dead 
 Dorothy Flood was sentenced to 21 years in prison for killing her grandsons Jaden (bottom right) and Jordan Webb (top right) (Picture: Pima County Sheriff’s Office)A Grandmother who shot her autistic eight-year-old twin grandsons to death said she is ‘so sorry’ and claimed she never meant to harm them.

Dorothy Flood, 56, was sentenced to 21 years in prison this week for murdering Jorden and Jaden Webb on April 3, 2019 in Tuscon, Arizona.

Prosecutors said said Flood called Laguna Elementary School, where her grandsons attended, before the murders and told school administration that the boys would not be coming to school.

Hours later, she entered Jorden’s bedroom with a .22 caliber pistol and shot him in the stomach, but the gun jammed afterwards.

Flood searched online how to clear a firearm’s chamber and unjammed the gun. She then walked into Jaden’s bedroom and shot him in the chest – then shot both boys in the head.


Prosecutors said Flood cracked under the pressure of caring for her disabled grandchildren after their mother died. (Picture: KOLD)After the shooting, Flood placed the gun on her dining room table and consumed a variety of pills, prosecutors said.

Pima County prosecutor Tracy Miller said: ‘She took pills – basically everything she could find in the house – and laid down in the living room.’

How likely is someone to die from coronavirus?Flood’s mother discovered her the next day and called police, who found the twins’ bodies.

Before her sentence was announced, Flood apologized for killing her grandchildren and said she regretted her actions.

‘I loved those boys. I never intended to harm them. I am so sorry that I did,’ she said.


Officers responded to the home and discovered the boys dead after Flood was found by her mother the day after the shootings. (Picture: KOLD)Flood’s lawyers argued that their client, who became the boys’ guardian after their mother died two years prior, was unstable and cracked under the pressure of taking care of the ‘severely autistic’ twins, who were non-verbal and had other ‘chronic illnesses.’

Sarah Kostic, Flood’s lawyer, told Oxygen: ‘Mrs. Flood recognized the physical pain that both boys were in and her choice of place to shoot them reflected her desire to relieve them of their pain, not cause more.

Man lies dead in the street in crisis-hit coronavirus city of Wuhan‘At the time, she truly believed she was being merciful and doing the right thing.’

Kostic said Flood shot Jorden in the stomach because he suffered gastrointestinal issues. She said her client shot Jaden in the chest because he had asthma.

‘Ms. Flood knows what she did was wrong and inexcusable,’ Kostic said.

‘She is deeply remorseful. She is prepared to serve her 21-year sentence with dignity and humility, and hopes that her story can be used to help others who find themselves in the seemingly hopeless situation of caring for severely disabled children with the limited resources available to caregivers.’

Flood was originally charged with two counts of first-degree murder, but the charges were downgraded after she took a plea deal.