Nickel Monthly News For The Month Of January 2020 
 Nickel company news - North American Nickel announces earn-in agreement with option to acquire a 100% interest in Loveland Nickel Property located 30km northwest of Timmins, Ontario.

Nickel market news - Lackluster stainless steel, EV growth may keep nickel bulls at bay. Key EV markets to start growing again – WoodMac.

Nickel spot prices were down in January, and the LME inventory rose.

Welcome to the nickel miners news for January. The past month saw nickel prices fall as China manufacturing is being impacted by the Wuhan coronavirus, causing nickel inventories to rise. Looking to 2020, there is quite a mix of views towards nickel from the industry analysts - I highlight some of them this month, as well as some nickel company news.

As of January 28, the nickel spot price was USD 5.78, down from USD 6.35 last month. Nickel inventory at the London Metals Exchange [LME] rose last month from 146,694 tonnes to 194,526 tonnes.

The chart below shows nickel is forecast to be in deficit after ~2020-2022 (or at least require new supply to come online).

Note: Some others such as BMI have been forecasting a nickel surplus by 2020 due to increased Indonesian production and reduced Asian demand.

Nickel demand from EVs set to surge 5x from 2020 to 2025

Investors can also read my past article: "Top 5 Nickel Miners To Consider Before The Nickel Boom."

Nickel Outlook 2020: Deficit to support prices, EV story still strong. “The impact of the Indonesian ore ban may be underestimated if the domestic downstream plants and projects are unable to consume the surplus ore. The impact would be exacerbated if the Philippines industry also encounters problems,” she explained.....After 2020, however, Nornickel believes the market is likely to face a structural deficit. Nickel demand is likely to remain high as stainless steel production stays strong and electric vehicles (EVs) continue to rise in importance. “As lithium-ion battery manufacturers reduce the amount of cobalt used in battery cells, nickel consumption rises and it does so in a major way,” said Moores. He added that nickel demand is expected to increase up to 19 times if under-construction lithium-ion production facilities come online as planned. “Another year of deficit should underpin prices and limit the downside prices,” she said. “However, the deficit will be relatively modest, and combined with slower demand growth and large hidden stock levels, this should act as a brake on prices.” FocusEconomics’ panel of analysts projects that the price of nickel will fall in the coming months. Prices are forecast for US$15,856 in Q4 2020, while the average price for Q4 2021 is set at US$15,344.

‘Rising tide’ to float all battery-metal boats. Rising electric vehicle [EV] adoption is driving a massive transformation in lithium-ion battery production. Miller estimates total lithium-ion cell production will come in below 200 gigawatt hours (GWh) for 2019. As of January 2019, total production capacity in the pipeline over the coming decade (including projects producing, under construction and planned) totalled 1,550 GWh. By 2028, Miller estimates there will be 2,030 GWh in the production pipeline. Looking upstream at the mining picture, four critical minerals (cobalt, graphite, lithium and nickel) will see demand growth from the battery sector if the 99 planned megafactories come online, he says. Counting supply from existing operations and their expected growth, Miller forecasts the lithium market will move into deficit in 2022. Under a scenario where all projects under development today become producers, that deficit will arrive in 2027. Using the same assumptions, he says the cobalt market will be in deficit in 2020 or 2026, and a flake graphite deficit will emerge in 2022 or 2028.

Some Vale news from October 2019 has relevance. Fastmarkets reported:

No news for the month

Investors can read my article "An Update On Norilsk Nickel."

In 2017, BHP announced a US$43.3m investment in its Nickel West project to enable conversion to nickel sulphate.

On January 21, BHP Group announced: "BHP Operational review for the half year ended 31 December 2019."

No news for the month.

No nickel news for the month; however, I did find a Glencore report titled "Glencore: Swiss Energy Strategy 2050."

Regarding nickel they quote:

No news for the month.

On January 23, Anglo American announced: "Q4 2019 production report." Below is their nickel production which rose only 1% in 2019.

You can view a company presentation here.

No nickel related news for the month.

On January 22, Sherritt International announced: "Sherritt announces 2019 production results and guidance for 2020." Highlights include:

On January 28, Western Areas Ltd. announced: "Activity report for the period ending 31 December 2019" Highlights include:

Panoramic's Savannah mine and mill has a forecast life of mine average annual production rate of 10,800t of nickel, 6,100t of copper and 800t of cobalt metal contained in concentrate.

On January 28, Nickel Mines Ltd announced: "Quarterly activities report for the quarter ended 31 December 2019. Hengjaya Nickel and Ranger Nickel RKEF projects combine for 10,968 tonnes of nickel metal production." Highlights include:

No news for the month.

Note: First Quantum Minerals [TSX:FM] (OTCPK:FQVLF) plans to restart their Ravensthorpe nickel mine in early 2020.

No news for the month.

On January 14, Cassini Resources announced: "New mineralised prospect discovered at Yarawindah." Highlights include:

On January 24, Cassini Resources announced: "Activities report for the quarter ended 31 December 2019." Highlights include:

The Cathedrals, Stricklands and Investigators nickel-copper discoveries (at Mt Alexander) are located on E29/638, which is held in joint venture by Western Areas Limited (25%) and St George (75%). St George is the Manager of the Project with Western Areas retaining a 25% non-contributing interest in the Project (in regard to E29/638 only) until there is a decision to mine.

No news for the month.

No significant news for the month.

No significant nickel news for the month.

Conic Metals has been formed from the Cobalt 27 spin-out. Conic Metals offers broad exposure to nickel and cobalt through an 8.56% JV interest in Ramu, 11 royalty investments, and an equity share of ~7% of Giga Metals Corporation.

No news for the month.

Investors can view a recent CEO video here, or my recent CEO interview here on Trend Investing.

A new nickel and cobalt junior, Canada Nickel, is set to list soon (~January/February 2020) and will 100% own the Crawford Nickel-Cobalt Sulphide Project, near Timmins in Canada.

Investors can view a recent CEO video here, or my recent CEO interview here on Trend Investing.

Ardea Resources [ASX:ARL] (OTCPK:ARRRF), Artemis Resources [ASV:ARV], Australian Mines [ASX:AUZ], Blackstone Minerals [ASX:BSX], Cassini Resources [ASX: CZI] (OTC:CSSQF), Centaurus Metals [ASX:CTM], Clean TeQ [ASX:CLQ] [TSX:CLQ] (OTCQX:CTEQF), FPX Nickel [TSXV:FPX], Giga Metals [TSXV:GIGA], Grid Metals Corp [TSXV:GRDM, Inomin Mines [TSXV:MINE], New Age Metals [TXV:NAM], Nickel Creek Platinum [TSX:NCP] (OTCQB:NCPCF), Pancontinental Resources Corporation [TSXV:PUC], Polymet Mining [TSX:POM], Rox Resources [ASX:RXL], S2 Resources (ASX:S2R), Talisman Mining Ltd. [ASX:TLM], Talon Metals [TSXV:TLO], Transition Metals [TSXV:XTM], and Wall Bridge Mining [TSX:WM].

Note: Some of the above companies are covered in the Cobalt monthly news.

Nickel spot prices were lower and LME nickel inventory rose in January.

Highlights for the month were:

As usual all comments are welcome.

Disclosure: I am/we are long NORILSK NICKEL [LSE:MNOD], GLENCORE [LSX:GLEN], RNC MINERALS [TSX:RNX], AXIOM MINING (ASX:AVQ), ARDEA RESOURCES [ASX:ARL], AUSTRALIAN MINES [ASX:AUZ], POSEIDON NICKEL [ASX:POS], AMUR MINERALS [LN:AMC]. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it (other than from Seeking Alpha). I have no business relationship with any company whose stock is mentioned in this article.

Additional disclosure: The information in this article is general in nature and should not be relied upon as personal financial advice.