Plane from coronavirus-hit city Wuhan carrying Brits lands in UK 
 The civilian passenger plane chartered to carry Brit evacuees from coronavirus-hit Wuhan has landed at RAF Brize Norton.

A total of 83 Brits and 27 foreign nationals landed in the UK after flying from China's central city of Wuhan, the centre of a virus epidemic that has killed more than 200 people and infected more than 9,000.

This comes as the first cases of the coronavirus have been diagnosed in the UK, with two people from the same family being treated at a specialist centre.

The plane arrived at the Royal Air Force base at Brize Norton in central England and the Brits will be taken to a NHS facility where they will be quarantined for 14 days.

It is due to continue on to Spain, where the home countries of European Union citizens will take responsibility for the remaining passengers.

Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab tweeted: "A @foreignoffice plane has landed after evacuating UK and EU nationals from Wuhan.

"Thanks to FCO staff working around the clock to get them home.

"Safety and security of UK nationals is our priority and we will keep working hard to provide help and support."

The Brit passengers on the UK evacuation flight – who have mainly been in Wuhan and the surrounding Hubei province – had to sign a contract agreeing to isolation before they could board the flight.

Deputy chief medical officer Dr Jenny Harries said all passengers had undergone screening before boarding the plane and were subject to ongoing questioning and continuous risk assessment during the journey.

The passengers are now being taken by bus to Arrowe Park Hospital in Wirral for a quarantine period of 14 days, where they will be housed in an NHS staff accommodation block with access to the internet.

They are being given fully-furnished rooms, food, laundry facilities and have access to a team of medical staff who will closely monitor their condition.

Kitchens are available for those who wish to self-cater, and families are being kept together.

Anyone with suspicious symptoms will be taken to the Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen Hospital.

Earlier today, it was confirmed that two patients are currently being treated by Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust in its specialist Airborne High Consequences Infectious Disease Centre (HCID).

It is understood that they travelled to the UK from China in recent days, had been staying at a hotel in Yorkshire, and are now undergoing treatment at the Newcastle Royal Victoria Infirmary.