'The infected are coming' Wuhan evacuees share journey home on Instagram 
 British nationals evacuated out of coronavirus-hit city Wuhan on an emergency flight to the UK documented their journey home on social media – with one joking ‘the infected are coming’.

A total of 83 Britons and 27 foreign nationals arrived at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire at around 1.30pm today, hours after the first two cases of coronavirus were confirmed in England.

They will now be taken by coach to Arrowe Park Hospital on the Wirral, Merseyside, to spend 14 days in quarantine in an NHS staff accommodation block.

Many of the foreign nationals – mostly EU citizens – will stay on the plane which will now be flown to Spain.

One of those on board, Patrick Graham, posted video to his public Instagram page charting his journey from Wuhan to the military base.

In one clip, now deleted, he was seen wearing a face mask and filming out of the Wamos plane window with the caption ‘The infected are coming’.

He earlier posted a video of a crying emoji face with the caption: ‘Waiting to leave Wuhan.’

Not all UK citizens who wanted to leave Wuhan were on the FCO-chartered Boeing 747 jet, with some finding it ‘impossible’ to make it to the airport on time after the Foreign Office gave them just two hours notice.

The plane hit the tarmac after the death toll in China rose to 213 with 10,000 cases of the virus confirmed across the country.

Passengers – many families with young children – were met by paramedics wearing face masks but not the hazmat suits worn by specialists treating those infected with the killer virus.

The government previously said that anybody showing any sign of coronavirus infection would not be allowed to leave Wuhan.

NHS staff were pictured preparing for the plane’s arrival, with several ambulances and seven coaches lining the roads outside the RAF base this morning.

Those landing will be checked out by medical staff before taking a five-hour coach journey to the Wirral.

A daughter of one of the people on board the 11-hour flight told Sky News she was breathing a big sigh of relief that her parent was finally back in the UK.

Before the evacuation flight left Wuhan at 9.45am local time on Friday, passengers were told they had to sign a contract agreeing to isolation and undergo temperature checks before they could board.