How Much Hope Have Investors Placed On The Upcoming Budget And What Can We Expect 
 There is a famous saying that hope is the biggest deceiver, and that is what has been fuelling the Indian financial market of late. I say this as until last week all of us had been executing our longs and making quite a good amount of green. But, the sad reality is that the Indian economy is bent on its knees as the GDP level has reached an 11 year low and the inflation level has crossed the limits set by many institutions. The only reason we reached an all-time high zone in the past few weeks is due to the market players assuming that the government will kick in some good policies as the news surrounding them is going from bad to worse. Thus, they cannot be that daft that they will let the situation go further down the drain. Hence, this week’s budget will be a tipping point for the market on whether we go in for a new bull run that is backed by solid growth prospects due to policy changes or we enter a bearish phase due to policy paralysis.

However, I will look at the budget more from the point of how the finance minister can balance the seesaw. I say this as the governments’ money collection has fallen short of expectations, whilst other tactics utilised such as divestments are failing to recover enough funds so as to tide over the shortfall seen in government finances. Hence, against this backdrop, it is challenging to see where the funds will come from to give the economy a good enough fiscal boost. Moreover, I do not expect the RBI to continue cutting interest rates as the inflation level has gotten out of hand and am sure the governor wouldn’t want to be known as the lad who caused stagflation. Hence, I expect little from the stimulus front as the number of basis points required on the fiscal side to give a boost is unfortunately not viable as the government coffers are running dry.

The one policy amendment I see all analysts asking the government for is a direct tax cut. This is as it will have a direct impact on the economy as it will release a sizeable amount of funds into the pockets of every citizen. However, I do not expect a direct tax cut but a tinkering of the tax slabs. I say this, as this shall aid individuals in the lower tax slabs by giving them extra money, whilst also ensuring that a good chunk of the finances of the affluent still get collected by the government.

One of the other factors that I believe the government could utilise to provide a booster shot to the markets is a reduction in the Capital gains and dividend distribution tax. This is as we have seen many large market players deem this as a necessary step and if undertaken can be a huge sentiment booster to the financial markets plus it will put more money in the pockets of investors for investment. I would personally love to see a tweaking in the tax rates for the financial markets as the amount of tax profitable traders pay at the time of trading and at the end of the year makes your eyes tear.

Another factor that I believe is very important for the government to address is the type of spending they do. I say this as the government in the past couple of years has pumped money into some projects that were done purely to serve as a public relations aspect rather than boost underlying growth. Hence, I believe in this budget most market players would like to see some meaningful spending from the government and I am certain that they wouldn't even mind if this was to cause a rise in the level of deficit provided the funds were being utilised to boost the underlying fundamentals. However, the higher deficit numbers will irk the fixed income market as it will influence market borrowing rates and the value of government paper.

Another factor that I believe the government may look at is the agriculture sector. This is as growth in this sector will have a huge impact on the chances of an economic revival. This is as higher farm income can help raise the level of rural consumption, which has seen a sizeable drop in the past two years. Moreover, an increase in farm income will positively boost most sectors, such as Auto, FMCG and consumption. Lastly, it will also reduce the likelihood of defaults from farm loans in the banking sector.

Lastly, I believe many market players will hope that the finance minister will nudge the banking sector regarding repo rate transmission. I say this as since the RBI started slashing the repo rate, a substantial 0.9% of repo rate cuts haven’t been transmitted by banks to consumers. Hence, I believe the finance minister will need to nudge the banks to ensure full transmission, as this can significantly revive demand across all sectors.

On the whole, I do not believe the government can afford to give another negative budget as it is facing fury from all fronts. Hence, I expect this budget to have some good aspects in it. However, we will have to see how much the finance minister will do with the amount of financial manoeuvrability she has. Lastly, traders have to be very careful when trading this budget period due to the high level of volatility. Also, Saturday may be positive, but on Monday the Chinese markets will reopen after they closed on January 23rd. I am worried about this as every global financial market has already reacted to the coronavirus but on Monday it will be China’s turn and I expect it to be a brutal reaction. This is as I expect the Chinese market to significantly decline at open, which can have a brutal effect on the Indian indexes and equities.

Disclaimer: The investments discussed by Sandeep Singh Ahluwalia may not be suitable for all investors. Therefore, you must trust your analysis and judgment the equity before making investment decisions. The report provided is for informational purpose only and should not be interpreted as a proposition to buy or sell any securities.