Campuses reeling from coronavirus threat 
 With help from Bianca Quilantan

Editor's Note: This edition of Morning Education is published weekdays at 10 a.m. POLITICO Pro Education subscribers hold exclusive early access to the newsletter each morning at 6 a.m. Learn more about POLITICO Pro's comprehensive policy intelligence coverage, policy tools and services at politicopro.com.

— The Wuhan coronavirus outbreak in China has U.S. colleges, universities and schools scrambling to scrap trips, respond to scares and combat misinformation.

— A top Education Department official said a program that extends federal education grants to prisoners is probably "illegal," even though it's been lauded by President Donald Trump.

— Education Secretary Betsy DeVos on Thursday told a reporter in Colorado that her recent comments, equating arguments for abortion rights with those in favor of slavery, were “blown out of proportion.”

IT’S FRIDAY, JAN. 31. WELCOME TO MORNING EDUCATION. Got news to share? Drop me a line at ngaudiano@politico.com. Share event listings: educalendar@politicopro.com. And follow us on Twitter: @Morning_Edu and @POLITICOPro.

CAMPUSES CONFRONT CORONAVIRUS THREAT: Some schools have nixed trips from Chinese exchange students, and others have canceled study abroad programs entirely. Students who are concerned about contracting the virus have taken to wearing face masks.

— Colleges have also announced restrictions on travel to China due to escalated warnings from the State Department, which elevated its advisory on Thursday to urge U.S. citizens not to travel to the country, and the CDC, which called for avoiding all nonessential travel.

— China sends the largest share of international students to the United States, according to State Department data in its annual Open Doors report. There were 369,548 students from China in the 2018-19 school year.

— The Wuhan coronavirus outbreak has killed roughly 200 people and sickened thousands in China. So far, there are six confirmed cases in the United States, including in Arizona, California, Illinois and Washington, and more are expected. The World Health Organization on Thursday also declared the virus a global health emergency as it continues to spread.

— Campuses that are home to many international students have seen some misinformation spread. The University of Southern California has had to dispel rumors of coronavirus confirmed on campus after a false alarm sent its campus community into a frenzy.

— “During times like this, inaccurate information — even when well-intended — can spread widely,” wrote Sarah Van Orman, the university’s chief health officer, and Winston B. Crisp, vice president for student affairs, in a statement. More from Bianca Quilantan and your host.

IMPORTANT, BUT ALSO ILLEGAL? Diane Auer Jones, a top adviser on higher education to DeVos, told a conference of Christian college leaders on Thursday, “Second Chance Pell is an experiment that we think is incredibly important — it's probably also illegal.” She also said the department is fighting with OMB over funding for the program, describing it as the "biggest obstacle" to expanding the number of participating colleges.

— But an Education Department spokesperson later said that Jones "misspoke" and there was no conflict. Senior administration officials also pushed back against Jones' initial remarks. “The idea that there is friction between OMB and Department of Education on this is completely untrue,” a senior administration official told POLITICO.

— The pilot program, which was launched during the Obama administration, allows Pell Grants to be awarded to state and federal prisoners — unlike loans, Pell Grants do not have to be repaid and are handed out based on financial need. During the Clinton administration’s “tough on crime” era, Congress set a ban on prisoners using Pell Grants to subsidize their education costs, and the ban has yet to be reversed.

— “The prior administration started it. We have a lot more flexibility,” Jones said. “So you know, one of the things we're not allowed to do at experimental sites is change eligibility requirements, so technically it's not a legal experiment. But Congress likes it, and the last administration started it, and we said, what the heck, we’ll join the club.” Bianca and Michael Stratford have more.

DEVOS, OUT WEST: DeVos said she was talking about “the underlying moral question and issue” when she said she was reminded of President Abraham Lincoln and how "he, too, contended with the 'pro-choice' arguments of his day.” Her controversial comparison came last week during remarks at a Colorado Christian University event in Washington, D.C., ahead of the March for Life rally.

— KUSA asked her about the comments while she was in Colorado for events celebrating National School Choice week. “It certainly, as many things do, get blown out of proportion and or taken very differently than what the intention was,” she responded.

— DeVos visited Liberty Common High School, a Fort Collins, Colo., parent-run charter school that hosted Ivanka Trump ahead of her father’s election in 2016. She and Rep. Ken Buck (R-Colo.) also visited Greeley's Aims Community College.

— "All the students are here today because you and your parents decided this was the school that was going to be the right fit for you and the right opportunity for you to continue to grow and explore your passions and interests," DeVos said, according to the Coloradoan. She said that’s what the administration is advocating for: “That every family is empowered to make those kinds of choices and decisions for their own children, not based on what they can afford or where they happen to be living in what zip code."

— On Tuesday, DeVos spoke at a National School Choice Week event with Vice President Mike Pence in Wisconsin.

MEANWHILE, IN FLORIDA: A bill introduced Thursday by the House Education Committee proposes numerous expansions to Florida's school choice programs, including a boost to the enrollment cap for a new scholarship lawmakers created last session.

— The legislation won unanimous support from the panel, even from Democrats who called for more accountability from private schools that receive state funding through scholarship vouchers. POLITICO's Andrew Atterbury has more.

WISCONSIN TEACHER INDICTED ON CHILD PORNOGRAPHY CHARGES: A Madison, Wis., high school teacher was indicted by a federal grand jury on charges of attempting to produce child pornography. The indictment charges the man with seven counts of attempting to use a minor to engage in sexually explicit conduct for the purpose of producing a visual depiction of the conduct.

BILL TO PREVENT CHILD ACCESS TO GUNS CLEARS VIRGINIA HOUSE: The measure was part of a package of gun safety bills that passed the House of Delegates on Thursday, just over a week after armed protesters marched against the proposals in Richmond.

— The bill, which still has to be passed by the state Senate, would make it a Class 6 felony to negligently leave a loaded, unsecured firearm in a manner that would endanger anyone under the age of 18. Current law provides that any person who recklessly leaves a loaded, unsecured firearm in a manner that would endanger a child under 14 is guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.

— The chamber also passed legislation that would implement universal background checks, authorize extreme risk protection orders, limit handgun purchases to one a month, compel gun owners to report lost or stolen guns, disarm domestic abusers, and give localities the authority to regulate firearms, according to the gun safety group Giffords. The state Senate passed five similar bills two weeks ago, ABC reported. Both chambers are now controlled by Democrats after decades of GOP control.

COMING UP: A House education subcommittee will hold a hearing Feb. 6 on "Solving America’s Child Care Crisis: Supporting Parents, Children, and the Economy." The Early Childhood, Elementary and Secondary Education Subcommittee hearing will begin at 10:15 a.m. in 2175 Rayburn House Office Building.

NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION KICKS OFF ‘WE COUNT’ CAMPAIGN: Union members hope to reassure people that participating in the 2020 Census is “safe, important and necessary,” said NEA President Lily Eskelsen García. The campaign will include targeted digital ads and Census-themed posters for classrooms, offices and campuses, along with other materials to educate communities about the importance of the Census.

— “An accurate census is key to getting our public schools and communities the resources they need to serve all students—regardless of where they live, what language they speak at home, or whether they are black, brown, or white,” she said in a statement.

— Urban Alliance, a national youth development nonprofit, announced the appointment of Nicola Diamond as chief operating officer. She most recently served as chief financial officer for Montgomery County Public Schools in Maryland.

— A new report from Harvard University indicates a large majority of parents across race, class, geographic region, and political affiliation favor substantially racially and economically integrated schools, and that support appears to have increased since Trump was elected. But research also indicates that when parents have more control over where to send their children to school, their choices make schools more segregated.

— New York City could see shortage of 1,000 preschool special ed seats: POLITICO Pro New York

— Education Department weighs changes to federal financial standards for colleges: POLITICO Pro

— Mississippi mulls ‘1st step’ to increase pay for teachers: Associated Press

— This ex-principal hopes to be the next Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez: Education Week