Wellington's Chinese New Year celebrations bigger than ever for 19th year 
 The street parade will take place on Sunday, blocking off parts of Tennyson St during the day.

Wellingtonians will be celebrating Chinese New Year this weekend for the 19th year running.

Festival programme director Linda Lim said the efforts of  3000 volunteers, performers, and stall owners would come to fruition this weekend, as celebrations took over the TSB Arena.

The festival would provide audiences with a different perspective on Asian culture in a contemporary setting.

"It's very rich and diverse and colourful," she said. "There's a lot more to it than just lions and dragons and Chinese opera."

READ MORE:

 * Exhibition remembers first Chinese New Zealander

 * A Kiwi twist comes to Wellington's Chinese New Year celebrations

 * Chinese New Year: The best places to celebrate in New Zealand

There will be rides, face painting, and a petting zoo at Frank Kitts Park, a parade through the streets which would close parts of Tennyson St tomorrow, and a market of food stalls serving Asian cuisine.

In previous years up to 60,000 people attended the various events; last year, the TSB area was at capacity for the annual "East Meets West" show on Saturday night.

"This year we will open the doors earlier and have pre-show entertainment to manage the crowds," Lim said.

Supported by China Culture Centre and the Asia NZ Foundation, this year's show at 7.30pm tonight was inspired by visual artist Guy Ngan​, a second-generation Chinese-New Zealander whose work was full of bold colours.

Local and international artists will present songs, dances and films which highlight the significance of colours to the Chinese culture.

The colour white would be represented by Daniel Belton and Good Company Arts' latest short film XYZ, featuring a previous New Zealand School of Dance graduate from Singapore, Jill Goh.

Choreographer Xin Ji created a work in response to the colour black - all this for a gold coin donation.

The show will be followed by a fireworks display on the waterfront at 9pm.

Technology was stepping up this year, with virtual reality (VR) dragons and a VR dance experience in the Asian market.

"A big part of what we do is to provide a platform for the community to show talent and share their causes and organisations," Lim said.

She hoped the celebrations would get people excited for next year - the 20th anniversary of the festival in Wellington.

"We're moving very fast toward a really big celebration next year," she said

While it was about celebrating a traditional holiday, Lim said, it was "equally important for us to engage the wider community, too".

Many groups have been with the festival from the very beginning.

Wellington Chinese Sports and Cultural Centre has performed a dragon dance since the festival's inception, and this year has changed things up with a hip-hop dragon dance routine during "East Meets West".

Club president Malcolm Young said all their members, from children to seniors, were involved in the performances.

The under-5s performed songs and dances, and the seniors would demonstrate their skill in a fan dance.

"Everybody gets quite excited about it."

From their first dragon dance on the corner of Courtenay Pl and Kent Tce in 2001, the festival had grown and evolved; now about eight other clubs took part.

Auckland's Northcote Chinese and Korean New Year Festival was cancelled on Thursday due to concerns about coronavirus.

Lim said they were keeping tabs on the situation, but the risk was minimal. "Our performers have been here for over a week already," she said.