Man Utd have three alternative options to Josh King after fresh Bournemouth transfer twist 
 Manchester United now look set to miss out on Joshua King, with Bournemouth struggling to identify a replacement in such a short space of time. The club launched a £20million offer for the Cherries forward late last night, but their approach was rebuffed.

The Norwegian international was understandably keen to return to Old Trafford, where he played under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer in the reserves.
Eddie Howe conceded that King could leave before the window slams shut, because of his emotional attachment to Manchester United.
However it now looks like a deal is unlikely, with Bournemouth struggling to find his replacement.
Express Sport takes a look at three possible alternatives if United are willing to complete a late scramble for another centre-forward.
JUST IN: Man Utd identify surprise striker target after missing out on Krzysztof Piatek transfer


Islam Slimani
The Algerian is keen on a return to the Premier League and is currently on loan at Monaco from Leicester.
A lot needs to happen to get this deal over the line, particularly given that Monaco will need to agree to let him cut his loan short.
Inter Milan are also said to be keen, after pulling out of the race for Olivier Giroud.
Aston Villa have had an offer rejected while Tottenham were also said to be interested.
DON'T MISS
Cristiano Ronaldo wanted ‘dream’ Liverpool transfer before Man Utd snatched deal
Man Utd scouts drool over Maxi Gomez after Ole Gunnar Solskjaer transfer assignment

Man Utd could complete shock transfer deal for striker because of coronavirus 






Odion Ighalo
The striker flew back to Europe from China yesterday in search of a move.
The Chinese Super League has been suspended until further notice following the outbreak of the coronavirus.
Ighalo has scored goals in the Premier League before with Watford, before leaving for the Far East in 2017.
Shanghai Shenhua are likely to be willing to let him leave on loan until the end of the Premier League season.

Vedat Muriqi
The 25-year-old is well known to United’s England internationals having played against them in European Championship qualifying with Kosovo.
He’s scored goals for fun in the Turkish Super Lig and has been linked with a move to both United and Burnley.
Earlier this week Solskjaer was talking about his desire to sign a striker who would break his nose and toes to score goals, Muriqi is that man.
An old-school battering ram who is not shy of a physical battle, he would bring something different to United’s attack if they could conclude a deal in a short space of time.