Four Horsemen?! Bizarre coach choice for passengers on UK-China flight 'Who picked that!' 
 Up to four coaches were provided by firm Horseman to transport the group of Britons from their emergency Government flight from China to a medical facility where they can be tested for the deadly virus. Twitter went into meltdown at the sight of the coaches that were waiting when the plane landed in Oxfordshire this afternoon. One commenter said: “Love and prayers for those people in quarantine....but who hired the four Horsemen buses of the apocalypse to drive them there....really!”

A second said: "Four Horsemen of the.... anyone?"
The coaches will be “deep cleaned” after the passengers get off, Horseman Coaches said.
They added: "The Department for Health have procedures in place for the vehicles to be deep cleaned.

"That is part of the process of this undertaking, which will happen as soon as the vehicles are clear.
"I can give everybody assurance that everything will be cleansed sufficiently."
Up to 83 Britons on an evacuation flight from the Chinese city at the centre of the outbreak have landed in the UK an hour ago, where a special facility has been set up to quarantine those returning from Wuhan.
READ NOW: Coronavirus PEAK: When will coronavirus end? Expert prediction [NEWS]

The Chief Medical Officer has also raised the level from Low to Moderate.
In a statement, Professor Chris Whitty, said: "We can confirm that two patients in England, who are members of the same family, have tested positive for coronavirus.
"The patients are receiving specialist NHS care, and we are using tried and tested infection control procedures to prevent further spread of the virus.
DON'T MISS: 
Coronavirus: Why the latest coronavirus will struggle to survive [NEWS]
Coronavirus: Russia blocks off 2,600 mile border with China [INSIGHT]
Coronavirus panic: Expert issues harrowing verdict on China's downf...[ANALYSIS]

It comes as up to two patients are both being treated at a hospital in Newcastle.
Last night, an apartment-hotel in Yorkshire was put on lockdown when a man, understood to be a Chinese national, was taken to hospital after falling ill.
The man, who was a guest at the Staycity Hotel in the centre of York, was taken to hospital, together with family members, by medics. However, it is not confirmed whether the two cases are linked.