Coronavirus quarantine Brits to enjoy TV, games, free food and unlimited Wifi as they isolate for TWO WEEKS 
 CORONAVIRUS hit Brits will enjoy TV, games, free food and unlimited Wifi during two long weeks in quarantine.

There are currently only two patients suffering from the deadly disease who are being treated in isolation in Newcastle.

Cages of supplies, including children’s toys and Barbie dolls, were spotted being wheeled across the car park at Arrowe Park Hospital in Merseyside.

Food packages were also stacked up on trollies, with baby baths on others, while boxes of phone handsets were also moved into the hospital.

It comes as the rescue flight from Wuhan finally touched down in Britain this lunchtime.

Authorities are now desperately scrambling to contain the spiralling epidemic with fears up to 2,000 could be infected in the UK.

This afternoon, 83 Brits - including young kids - landed at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire after being rescued from the "ground zero" epicentre of Wuhan.

Live footage showed a woman and a young child disembarking from the plane after it touched down just after 1.30pm today.

The child walked down the steps before being scooped up and carried away.

They will now be taken to Arrowe Park where they will be treated in isolation.

However, all patients will be made to be as comfortable as possible and have access to a team of medical staff who will closely monitor their condition.

There will be laundry facilities put on as well as kitchen and food available for those who wish to self-cater – completely free of charge.

The NHS will also ensure that all families are kept together with no parents being separated from their children.

It comes after Chinese tourists suffering coronavirus-symptoms were rushed to hospital from Staycity aparthotel in York city centre on Wednesday.

Dramatic video footage on Wednesday showed hazmat paramedics swooping on the hotel after a man travelling with two others reported feeling unwell.

Some rooms at the £140-a-night hotel have been sealed off and are being deep-cleaned today - but it is still open for business.

Hotel bosses today said they had been in touch with Public Health England but had no confirmation their guests were the confirmed victims.

A spokesman added: "Until more is known the apartment containing the group’s belongings will be cordoned off, along with surrounding rooms, after which the area will undergo a thorough environmental clean and disinfection."

Health officials say they "are working rapidly to identify any contacts the patients had, to prevent further spread" - amid frantic efforts to stop it spiralling out of control.

Official advice urges anyone who has come into close contact with coronavirus sufferers to "self-isolate" to prevent the infection spreading.

Director for national infection service at Public Health England Professor Sharon Peacock said: "What they'll be doing is aiming to contact everybody who has been in contact with these two cases and prevent onward transmission."



We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.