Coronavirus: Italy declares state of emergency after two cases confirmed in Rome 
 All flights to and from China have been grounded and regional authorities have been given special powers to introduce emergency measures designed to halt the virus. The state of emergency will be imposed for a six-month period from today and comes after the Chinese holidaymakers were found to have contracted coronavirus. The couple are being treated in an isolation ward in Rome's Spallanzani infectious diseases institute.

Police and public health officials have sealed off the room where the couple had been staying at a hotel in the centre of the Italian capital.
Other Chinese tourists who had arrived in Italy as part of the same party are being tested for the virus.
A 42-year old Romanian who had been working at the hotel was also admitted to hospital for tests.
BREAKING NEWS:No Coronavirus cure for MONTHS for fast-spreading deadly virus 

Confirmation of the two coronavirus cases in Rome came a day after a major health scare aboard a cruise liner which had docked in the port of Civitavecchia 50 miles northwest of the capital.
Around 6,000 passengers and 1,000 crew were refused permission to disembark after the captain told the harbourmaster and coast guard a couple from Hong Kong had been placed in isolation in the Costa Smeralda’s on-board hospital after showing flu-like symptoms.
A 54-year-old woman and her husband were later given the all-clear and all passengers and crewmen were allowed to leave the the towering cruise ship.

The number of coronavirus cases worldwide has now surpassed that of the 2002/2003 SARS epidemic, although death rates are currently lower, suggesting it is less deadly.
Chinese health officials announced the death toll in the country from the virus had risen to 213, up from 170 a day earlier, with the number of known cases rising from 7,711 to 9,692.
There are now 131 confirmed cases in 23 countries and regions outside mainland China including the UK, Australia, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Thailand and the US but o deaths have been reported outside China.
DON'T MISS
Coronavirus symptoms: What are the symptoms?[FOCUS]
Coronavirus cure: When will there be a cure? [SPOTLIGHT]
Why is it called coronavirus? What does corona mean?[ANALYSIS]

The World Health Organisation’s (WHO)  declared a global health emergency after a meeting yesterday.
The US warned its citizens not to travel to China country, where the outbreak emerged in Wuhan, capital of the central Hubei province.
Japan has advised citizens to put off non-urgent travel to China, Iran's health minister urged a ban on all travellers from China.

Singapore said it was suspending entry to travellers with a recent history of travel to China and suspending visas for Chinese passport holders.
Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said her country had taken "the most comprehensive and rigorous prevention and control measures.
She said: “We have full confidence and capability to win this fight.”