Jarrod Bowen prefers Newcastle transfer in surprise twist despite West Ham medical plans 
 Jarrod Bowen reportedly favours a move to Newcastle despite being close to a move to West Ham. The Hull winger is closing in on a move away from Humberside before the 11pm deadline.

Crystal Palace entered talks with the Championship club yesterday over a £16million deal.
But it was then revealed that West Ham had moved to the front of the queue for his signature.
It had been claimed this morning that Bowen was actually in London to discuss personal terms and undergo a medical.
However now according to The Athletic, Bowen actually favours a move to Newcastle.
JUST IN: Man Utd identify surprise striker target after missing out on Krzysztof Piatek transfer

West Ham’s proposed offer for the star is £14m upfront with an additional £8m in add-ons.
His move to the London Stadium has now encountered complications over wages.
He is said to be demanding in excess of £60,000 per week to sign for the Irons.
David Moyes is desperate to add some quality to his squad as he battles to beat the drop.
DON'T MISS
Cristiano Ronaldo wanted ‘dream’ Liverpool transfer before Man Utd snatched deal
Man Utd scouts drool over Maxi Gomez after Ole Gunnar Solskjaer transfer assignment
Man Utd could complete shock transfer deal for striker because of coronavirus


Bowen’s hopes of a move to Tyneside hinge on whether Newcastle are prepared to make a move for him before the deadline.
They are yet to table an official bid for the forward but have shown an interest.
The money is clearly there for Newcastle to spend too.
Steve Bruce confirmed reports this morning that the Magpies had a £35m offer for Boubakary Soumare rejected by Lille.
“We had a bid accepted that would have been near enough a club record but the player didn't want to come,” he said.

“We got past the club but unfortunately the player wanted to stay where he was.
“We had a bid accepted that would have been near enough a club record but the player didn't want to come.
“We got past the club but unfortunately the player wanted to stay where he was.”
Bowen is 23 years old and has consistently scored goals in the Championship for Hull.
This year he already has 16 goals to his name and is on course to beat his tally of 22 from last season.