Coronavirus UK map - where have cases been confirmed? 
 UK officials have confirmed the SECOND case of deadly coronavirus in England and are still desperately trying to trace up to 2,000 people who may have flown in from Wuhan, China, amid fears of an outbreak.

Medical professionals say there is a "fair chance" Britain will see more cases as a relative of the first person to have it in the UK was also diagnosed and quarantined in Newcastle. Here's the latest.

It is already here as of today.

Two members of the same family have been struck down with the virus and are being quarantined and treated in Newcastle as the deadly epidemic hits the UK.

Over 161 people suspected of having it have tested negative so far, or are in quarantine, however there are more suspected cases being reported daily and many are still awaiting results.

Two students from Bristol and London were bundled out of accommodation with suited-up paramedics on January 30 with suspected symptoms.

A flight carrying 83 Britons and 27 foreign nationals is on its way home from Wuhan has landed at Brize Norton RAF base. The passengers will be quarantined.

England is the 23rd country or territory outside of China to have confirmed coronavirus cases.

Dr Yvonne Doyle, a medical director at Public Health England, suspects that the lethal new virus could have bypassed airport screening.

In an interview with Sky News, she said: "Our view is that, although airports are important, the most likely place that we might find a case is somebody in the country already, and it's absolutely critical that the public health service and the NHS are ready to diagnose that and are able to designate the person to the right facilities.

"That's the most likely scenario we are dealing with."

Asked if she was alarmed about a UK case, she said: "I think, with infections, health is global.

"We've been here before, we've dealt with Middle Eastern virus, we've dealt with Sars, we deal with flu regularly, which can be dangerous, but we're ready."

And asked if there could be cases already in Britain, she said: "I would expect so."

More than 161 people have now been tested for coronavirus across the UK, according to the Department of Health (DoH).

Efforts are continuing to trace the 2,000 people who have entered the UK from China on international flights.

760 of them are now outside of the two week incubation period.

Dr Yvonne Doyle said: "We are now looking back to see whether any of them are still in the country, because some of them will have returned to China, but there are moves to identify them.

"It's not always possible to find everybody but we are working to our best endeavours."

Prof Doyle said washing hands with soap and water is more effective than wearing a face mask, although face masks are important for staff to use in hospitals when dealing with suspected cases.

And she urged anyone who has entered the UK from Wuhan and who has fallen ill with a fever, cough or difficulty breathing, to contact NHS 111.

The government has introduced advanced monitoring at airports with direct flights from China.

A 24-hour team of public health experts has also been established in Heathrow to support anyone travelling in from China who feels unwell.

On Monday, January 27, former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt suggested airlifts for UK citizens in China could occur and warned of the pressure the coronavirus could put on the NHS.

Asked if he supported flying Britons back from Wuhan and elsewhere, he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I think I would be very sympathetic and I'm sure the Foreign Office would be too."

He said the NHS is well-equipped to deal with patients returning with the virus but warned that it could strain the service.

"This is a very difficult time of year for the NHS - it is the most difficult time.

"But, again, my experience is that the NHS does know how to cope with these kinds of emergencies."

According to the World Health Organisation and Associated Press, there have been at least 82 confirmed cases outside of China as of January 30 though reports vary.

More than 9,800 cases of coronavirus have been confirmed as of Friday evening in Beijing, according to a report by the Associated Press.

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.