How To Be A Winning Manager In 2020 
 These Soaring ‘20s are off to an intense start. The decade has already felt like an onslaught of tragedy and chaos, on micro and macro levels, from the coronavirus outbreak to the premature losses of Kobe Bryant and Leila Janah; from fires in Australia to impeachment proceedings in the US. Of course, the good business of negative news is partially responsible for this sense of impending doom. So if you’re a new person, do add sources that highlight all the great things that are also happening, like Solutions Journalism Network and the Good News Movement.

Regardless of the actual ratio of good news to bad news, the underlying fear we are experiencing is real. 83% of people in 26 countries are afraid of losing their job, which is a pretty existential fear, threatening not only our financial security (to the extent our job provides that in the first place), but also social ties and a sense of meaning and usefulness, which is critical to our mental health. Look around the train car, meeting room, or Slack channel and consider that eight out of ten people around you are living scared. 


 
 
  
   The vast majority of us, across 26 countries, economic class, and demographics are scared of losing ... [+] our jobs.

  
  Edelman
 

This pervasive fear is not good for us, as individuals, or as a community or economy. The brain chemistry of fear, especially for prolonged periods, is bad for our mental health. The resulting growth in anxiety and depression has been estimated to cost the US economy about $100 billion annually. Globally, The Lancet estimated that our mental health crisis may cost up to $16 trillion by 2030. These are big numbers, particularly at a time when a significant downturn seems likely. 





A Simple Fix For Our Mental Health Epidemic?

There are no silver bullets to important problems like this one, and many mental health conditions require complex and long-term clinical treatment. But luckily, the majority of the 83% of us scared of losing our jobs aren’t at that end of the spectrum. The most powerful antidotes for this quotidian fear and resulting anxiety are social connection and the ability to make meaning of one’s life and work, along with sleep, physical activity, and a nutritious diet.

We can’t solve all of these things for each other, though I do love when someone suggests a walking meeting so that we get out of our seats for a while. What we can help with, though, is social connection. It’s easy to stay hidden behind a screen, on a phone, deep in our own thoughts – and fears. And to forget that the person on the other line or across the table is sitting with their own set of fears just like ours.


So as you walk around today, consider that chances are good that your barista, driver, manager, receptionist, colleague, or waiter is living with some level of fear. Take a minute to acknowledge that, and respond accordingly. Make eye contact as you ask how they’re doing, pausing to actually hear the answer. Appreciate their effort with more than a reflexive ‘thanks,’ adding a word about what their service means to you. Simply listen, without interrupting. Any of these gestures demonstrate you care, and counter the negative effects of fear by releasing oxytocin and other brain chemicals stimulated by connection, one of our most basic human needs. These seemingly trivial moments of human connection are actually potent antidotes to fear. 




Expert Insights About The Power Of Caring

Michael Bush, CEO of Great Place To Work, and author of Great Place To Work For All, surveys ten million employees globally each year, and and is a forward-thinking expert on workplace well-being. In a webinar we did together recently, he emphasized the power of basic caring at work. He encourages all employees to think about the environment they’re creating for people on a daily basis. Particularly those with leadership responsibilities (which Bush understands as more than just the most visible senior executives, including front line employees interacting with customers, for example) can be intentional about showing care in simple ways that make people feel connected.


 
 
  
   Michael Bush has a no-nonsense, fundamentally human approach to the building blocks of a great place ... [+] to work.

  
  Workday
 

Bush points out that while the fear epidemic may be peaking, so is the opportunity for business leaders to care. 




 “It's a great time for [business leaders] to conduct themselves in a manner where you're making the world right around you better, because everything else is outside your control. The caring supervisor, manager, employee, that's going to be the winning employee, the winning manager, the winning supervisor in 2020.” 




As for contemporary concerns about the risks of showing care for someone at work, lest it be perceived as inappropriate, Bush called them “completely insane”. He says that with common sense, and straightforward questions, it’s not hard to be caring in a perfectly appropriate way. For example, if you’re not sure whether someone is comfortable talking about their pets, ask, “Do you mind if I ask about your pet?” Bush continued, “caring in 2020 is no different from caring in 1960 or 1980.” This no-nonsense, well-intentioned, fundamentally human approach to care is what can build more trusting, healthy, and productive workplaces.




Caring Leadership Starts With Self-Care

For many of us, the caring has to start at home, with ourselves. It’s easy to beat ourselves up for not getting enough done, not doing it well enough, or not being good enough in any way that we might care about or think we should care about, whether being rich or beautiful or powerful or influential. And so, the practice of being caring at work actually needs to start with caring better for ourselves. 

Caring is simple, but not always easy, particularly when it comes to self-care. It can feel selfish or lazy to take an extra few minutes for yourself, read a novel you’re loving, or take time for a workout midday. But these gestures of care toward yourself are a critical foundation of being able to be a caring leader. Expert resources can be useful along the way. For example, Tara Brach wrote Radical Compassion all about this first step of self-care. A wide range of experts including Jocko and Oprah also have great insights and recommendations for self-care, so choose the style and tone that resonates with you.


 
 
  
   Tara Brach's approach to radical compassion is the foundation of caring for ourselves and each ... [+] other.

  
  Tara Brach
 




Once you understand the value and nature of caring, and the obstacles that can keep us from being as caring as we’d like to, it’s just another habit to build, like going to the gym or tracking project progress. It’s not easy to build new habits, but once we have them, usually after 21 days of regular practice, they tend to stick. Plus, the benefit of a new habit goes far beyond the immediate habit, since good habits tend to go together, as well as influencing the people around us to have a multiplier effect. Use habit-building tools like Momentum App, as well as an accountability buddy who’ll ask you how it’s going each morning over coffee or with a quick text message.




Caring Is Good For Your Business

In today’s context of fear and uncertainty, the path to success has changed, and calls for different behavior. When people are our greatest asset, we have to make great efforts to keep ourselves and our teams sane and healthy. Bush has hundreds of millions of data points to support his advice that “to create trust and have an explosive, great organization that financially outperforms competitors, you care for people. Not because it's a good thing to do: it’s good for your business.” If you’re serious about helping your colleagues manage their fear to improve their well-being and performance, look to experts and use habit-building tools to become a more caring person to yourself and those around you.