US issues 'do not travel' advisory for China: All your coronavirus travel questions answered 
 On Thursday, the rapid outbreak of coronavirus prompted the U.S. State Department to issue a level 4 travel advisory ("Do not travel") – its most severe warning – for the entire country of China, one week after it did so for Hubei Province, where the virus' epicenter, Wuhan, is located.

The move followed the World Health Organization's decision to declare coronavirus, which Chinese officials say has been diagnosed in 9,800 people and killed 213 , a global health emergency.

In the State Department's advisory, the agency notes: "Travelers should be prepared for travel restrictions to be put into effect with little or no advance notice," and recommends that those currently in China "consider departing using commercial means."

USA TODAY has pulled together answers to questions travelers may have about traveling during the outbreak.

Coronavirus:   Everything you need to know the deadly illness alarming the world

The three U.S. carriers that offer direct service to China – United, Delta and American – have all issued flight waivers for passengers whose plans have been scuttled by the coronavirus outbreak or who do not wish to travel there for the time being, allowing them to postpone or cancel plans without the usual penalty.

Delta: Covers travel to, from or through Beijing and Shanghai through April 30.

American: Covers travel to, from and through Beijing and Shanghai through March 27.

United: Covers travel to, from and through Beijing, Shanghai and Chengdu through March 31. (The waiver period for Wuhan ends March 29.)

The latest waiver information:  What to do if your flight has been affected

On Friday, Delta suspended all flights to China from Feb. 6 through April 30, and American halted service through March 27. United has reduced the number of scheduled flights to China but has not cut service completely.

Delta: Friday's decision made Delta the first domestic carrier to suspend all service to China. It will halt service until April 30. Earlier this week, it initially said it was planning to cut its flights in half.

American: Not long after Delta made its announcement, American followed, saying it is suspending operations to and from mainland China effective Friday through March 27. The carrier said it will continue to evaluate the schedule from March 28 onward.

United: The airline, which offers service to Beijing, Shanghai and Chengdu, has extended its flight cuts through March 28. That leaves four daily departures from its U.S. hubs (Los Angeles, Chicago O'Hare, Newark and Washington Dulles), down from the usual 12.

International carriers that have suspended service to China include:

While the CDC does not discourage healthy people from wearing surgical masks as a  precaution, the agency is only recommending their use for patients thought to have the virus and the medical professionals who interact with them.

Because most coronaviruses are spread through airborne droplets (sneezing or coughing), touching or touching an infected surface, hand washing is an effective way of reducing the potential for infection.

A pilot's perspective on coronavirus:  Should you wear a surgical mask?

Usually, the main HEPA (High-Efficiency Particulate Air) filters are changed when the airplane is in maintenance, which is about once a month. This can vary from airplane type to airplane type and airline to airline.

Earlier this week, the Centers for Disease Control confirmed that it is expanding its screening efforts of passengers from China from five airports to 20, aligning with the CDC's existing quarantine stations that cover all 50 states and Puerto Rico.

Travelers flying from China to one of the 20 airports will be asked to fill out a short questionnaire about their travel, any symptoms and contact information.

CDC staff will also take travelers' temperatures with a handheld thermometer that doesn't touch the skin and watch for signs of a cough or difficulty breathing.

In the case of travelers who appear sick, the CDC will evaluate them further to determine whether the passenger should be taken to a hospital for further care. However, the first two U.S. cases, in Seattle and Chicago, involved travelers who didn't show symptoms at the airport.

These are the 20 U.S. airports screening for the coronavirus:  Here's what it entails

Many cruise lines have spent the past week beefing up their screening measures and canceling or adjusting itineraries that had included visits to Chinese ports. Cruise Critic has a list of updates from nearly every cruise line on what they're doing to protect passengers.

Italy's Costa Cruises had its health and safety protocols tested Thursday when a passenger of Chinese nationality sailing aboard the Costa Smeralda cruise ship appeared to be symptomatic. The entire ship – and its 6,000 passengers – was put on lockdown in Civitavecchia, Italy, for the better part of a day while health officials collected samples and ran tests. In the end, the passenger was diagnosed with the common flu, and the rest of the passengers were allowed to disembark that evening.

Meanwhile, Cruise Critic reported Friday that local tribal chiefs in the South Pacific have closed the ports of Lifou and Mare, both located in the Loyalty Islands, to cruise ships out of concerns over coronavirus.

Not coronavirus:  6,000 cruise ship passengers given OK to disembark after passenger diagnosed with flu

Hong Kong Disneyland and Shanghai Disney Resort have both been closed since the weekend of Jan. 25-26 as a precaution to help prevent the spread of the virus.