Coronavirus hits travel to China - your rights as British Airways and other airlines suspend flights 
 Until the UK Government warned against non-essential travel to China, it was unlikely you would be able to claim on your travel insurance. But now it has put a warning in place, you're much more likely to be able to claim for the cost of your trip if you have to cancel it - though check with your insurer first.

What's more, if you're in China already and end up incurring extra costs when getting home or if you have to leave early, these may well also be covered by your insurance, though again check first.

The change in UK Government advice cuts both ways though - it also means that if you do choose to ignore it anyway and travel to China, you may not be covered by your travel insurance, so be extremely wary of doing this.

A spokesperson for the Association of British Insurers said: "Anyone travelling to a country or region against Government advice risks invalidating their travel insurance.

“If you make alternative travel plans, then you may be able to transfer your travel insurance to cover your new destination. Travel insurance policies may cover some out-of-pocket losses if you are advised to leave the area and return to the UK, and if unable to get assistance from any other source."

While the coronavirus outbreak is centred on mainland China, and that's where the biggest travel disruption has been, it's quickly becoming a global concerrn - in fact, two cases were confirmed in the UK on Friday. As a result some are concerned about travel plans elsewhere. For example, MoneySaver Heather contacted us concerned about an upcoming trip to Hong Kong which she has been told she will not be refunded for if she cancels.

It's important to understand that the UK Government's advice here is crucial, and if you cancel a trip to an area which it does not advise against travelling to, you may not be able to get a refund or claim on your insurance.

It's first worth liaising with your travel provider to see if it'll change your flight or refund you if you're going to Hong Kong or another area close to mainland China and don't wish to travel, as some providers, such as BA, are allowing refunds and alterations to these bookings.

We'll be continuing to update this story with further developments next week. If you have questions you'd like us to answer, email news@moneysavingexpert.com