American, Delta Drop Flights to Mainland China After State Department Issues Guidance 
 One day after the U.S. State Department recommended travelers avoid travel anywhere in China because of concerns about the Coronavirus, American Airlines and Delta Air Lines moved to suspend all flights between the United States and mainland China.

American Airlines’ suspension takes place immediately, airline officials said in a statement, while Delta will stop flying from the United States on Feb. 3, with the last return segment to the United States scheduled for Feb. 5. Delta said it wanted to keep flying for several days so it would not strand customers in China.

Both airlines only fly to Shanghai and Beijing in Mainland China. American flies to mainland China from Dallas/Fort Worth and Los Angeles, while Delta flies from Atlanta, Detroit, Los Angeles and Seattle.

For American, the decision to cancel was probably more urgent, as the airline’s pilots union was adamant its members not be sent to China. On Thursday, after the Allied Pilots Association filed suit against American, saying China flights were too dangerous for cockpit crews, the union’s head urged pilots to refuse to fly certain transpacific routes.

American’s two daily flights to Hong Kong, from Los Angeles, and Dallas/Fort Worth, will remain. Delta does not fly to Hong Kong.

The U.S. carriers join many of the world’s largest airlines, including British Airways, KLM, and Air Canada, in cutting flights to China. For the most part, airlines are not making a public health argument. Instead, they have noted neither customers nor crew members want to fly to China, saying it makes no sense to fly empty aircraft with employees who do not wish to work.

Some airlines have slashed China flying for longer than others, but it seems likely most of the cuts will remain until major North American and European governments lift guidance on avoiding the country.

United Airlines earlier in the week cut many flights from the United States to Mainland China, but said it would keep flying to Beijing, Shanghai and Chengdu from its San Francisco hub. That decision was made before the State Department issued new guidance and may change.

Subscribe to Skift newsletters covering the business of travel, restaurants, and wellness.