Terrifying Lassa fever rips through Nigeria killing 41… and it has NO symptoms 
 A TERRIFYING killer virus is gripping Nigeria, and the deathly fever is asymptomatic in 80 per cent of cases.

The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control confirmed the terrifying symptomless viral haemorrhagic fever - which belongs in the same family as Ebola - has killed 41 so far.

Nigerian officials announced increased measures to contain the latest outbreak as coronavirus rips through the globe.

Known as Lassa fever, across 19 of the west African country's states there have so far been 258 confirmed cases.

Most affected are between 11 and 40-years-old.

The health institute said it’s “working to support every state in Nigeria to identify one treatment centre, while supporting existing ones with care, treatment, and IPC commodities," reports The Epoch Times.

Lassa is a viral haemorrhagic fever originating in the town of Lassa, norther Nigeria which is its' namesake.

There have been previous outbreaks across the African continent, most notably striking down nine in Benin.

The fever has also struck on Liberia, Togo and Sierra Leone which was ravaged by Ebola in 2014.

Lassa fever is transmitted to people via contact with food or objects contaminated with rodent waste.

The killer fever has an incubation period of 21 days and can also be transmitted through bodily fluids.

While the majority of cases are without symptoms, some can include fever, physical fatigue, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, headaches, abdominal pains or sore throat.

The news comes as coronavirus sweeps the globe, with the first UK case confirmed today.

Two members of the same family fell ill with the virus at a Yorkshire hotel.

They were put into isolation in Newcastle after testing positive for the killer bug.

Public Heath England confirmed they were staying in York when they "became unwell".

It comes after Chinese tourists suffering coronavirus-symptoms were rushed to hospital from Staycity aparthotel in York city centre on Wednesday.

Dramatic video footage on Wednesday showed hazmat paramedics swooping on the hotel after a man travelling with two others reported feeling unwell.

Some rooms at the £140-a-night hotel have been sealed off and are being deep-cleaned today - but it is still open for business.