Man Utd switch attention to new striker as Josh King transfer deadline day move collapses 
 Manchester United have reportedly ended their pursuit of Joshua King and have now turned attentions to Odion Ighalo. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is looking to sign a striker before the window slams shut but his options are very much limited.

The Red Devils launched a move for their former player King last night, tabling an offer of £20million.
That was pegged back by Bournemouth who are understandably not willing to let King go cheaply given their Premier League status is currently at risk.
There had been talk that United had upped their offer for the Norwegian striker, but that has not been shut down by multiple outlets.
Now according to The Athletic, United are exploring a late deal for Odion Ighalo.
JUST IN: Man Utd identify surprise striker target after missing out on Krzysztof Piatek transfer

David Ornstein tweeted: “Man Utd preference on Josh King was always a loan and although a permanent deal was discussed no agreement could be reached.
“A striker into #MUFC on loan is still possible  sources suggest that could well be ex-Watford forward Odion Ighalo @TheAthleticUK.”
Sky Sports’ Dharmesh Sheth has claimed he has spoken with Ighalo’s agent.
The player is currently undergoing pre-season training camp with Shanghai Shenhua.
The Chinese Super League has suspended the start of the new season until further notice following the outbreak of the coronvirus epidemic.
DON'T MISS
Cristiano Ronaldo wanted ‘dream’ Liverpool transfer before Man Utd snatched deal
Man Utd scouts drool over Maxi Gomez after Ole Gunnar Solskjaer transfer assignment
Man Utd could complete shock transfer deal for striker because of coronavirus

Ighalo is said to be keen on a return to Europe for the final part of his career.
And conveniently, United decided earlier this window that they wanted a striker with Premier League experienced.
The Nigerian fits that criteria having played for Watford in the top-flight.
He helped fire the Hornets to Championship promotion before scoring 15 Premier League goals in the 2015/16 season.