Coronavirus update: US issues travel warning as Delta to suspend China flights 
 Developments in the coronavirus crisis have escalated rapidly, after U.S. officials late Thursday issued a “do not travel” advisory to China, following the World Health Organization’s declaration of a global public health emergency.

The U.S.’s warning comes as multiple airlines have sharply curtailed or suspended flights to the world’s second largest economy — which is reeling as the death toll spikes to over 200 amid more than 9,000 infections. On Friday, Delta Air Lines (DAL) announced it will suspend all U.S.-China flights, starting Feb. 6 through April 30.

WHO officials say 99% of the cases are contained to mainland China, but new cases have popped up around the world — including in the United Kingdom, which on Friday reported its first confirmed case.

Fears about the economic spillover in an uncertain global growth environment are unnerving investors, even as the WHO stopped short of calling for an outright travel ban. Goldman Sachs estimated on Friday that the virus wold cut China’s growth by a 1/4 of a percentage point this year, with a commensurate drag on annualized U.S. first quarter growth.

Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the WHO’s Director-General, said on Thursday that “there is no reason for measures that unnecessarily interfere with international travel and trade.” However, he acknowledged it could spread to countries “with weaker health systems [that] are ill-prepared to deal with it.”

Yahoo Finance is following developments closely, and will bring you updates as they occur.

Virus fears walloped Wall Street on Friday, as investors took fright over simmering fears of a global pandemic — and how it could affect growth. The S&P 500 (^GSPC), Dow (^DJI) and the Nasdaq (^IXIC) all fell to new session lows in early trading, with sentiment already curdled by the Centers for Disease Control’s announcement on Thursday that the U.S. had seen its first human-to-human coronavirus infection.

Asian markets, which were closed for part of the week for the Lunar Year holiday, have been under pressure, as have travel and leisure companies that may bear the initial brunt of reduced travel.

Businesses have taken action in the meantime, with reports of empty streets in parts of China and Hong Kong as some large employers close offices and ban travel. Some of the companies affected include Starbucks (SBUX), McDonalds (MCD), Microsoft (MSFT), Google (GOOG), Tesla, IKEA and Toyota.

Even before the U.S. travel advisory, some major airlines chose to reduce or suspend flights to China as a precautionary measure. On Thursday, the American Airlines pilot’s union filed a lawsuit minutes after the announcement to halt all future flights to China, citing concerns over the ease of the spread of the disease.

A spokesperson told Yahoo Finance the union is especially concerned because there is still little known about the virus, and seasoned pilots— who typically fly the long global routes— are more prone to being infected.

In addition, airplanes “can serve as agents to spread something like this,” the spokesperson added.

The list of air carriers pulling back from China has only grown in recent days, and currently includes American Airlines (AAL), Delta, United (UAL), Air Canada (ACDVF), Lufthansa (DLAKY), Lion Air Group, Cathay Pacific (CPCAY) and British Airways.

In addition, cruise ships have cancelled or rerouted their ships from China. A Carnival-owned cruise ship released 7,000 passengers who had been trapped for hours on board in Italy when two Chinese passenger were thought to have the virus, but tests were negative.

Japan and Singapore announced Friday they are restricting travelers from China, especially those with a recent travel history in Hubei province.