FACTBOX-Airlines suspend China flights due to coronavirus 
 Jan 31 (Reuters) - Airlines are suspending flights to China in the wake of the new coronavirus outbreak, which as of Friday had killed more than 200 people and infected nearly 10,000 people.

Here is the latest on their plans (in alphabetical order):

Air Canada said on Jan. 28 it was canceling select flights to China.

Air France said on Jan. 30 it suspended all scheduled flights to and from mainland China until Feb. 9.

Air India said it was canceling its Mumbai-Delhi-Shanghai flight from Jan. 31 to Feb. 14.

Air New Zealand said on Jan. 31 it was temporarily reducing flights between Auckland and Shanghai to four return services a week from Feb. 18 to March 31 rather than the usual daily flights.

South Korean budget carrier Air Seoul said on Jan. 28 it had suspended all flights to China.

Tanzania's state-owned carrier said it would postpone its maiden flights to China. It had planned to begin charter flights to China in February.

American Airlines will suspend all U.S.-China flights, CNBC reported. The largest U.S. carrier said earlier it would suspend flights from Los Angeles to Beijing and Shanghai from Feb. 9 to March 27.

BA said on Jan. 30 it had canceled all flights to mainland China for a month.

Hong Kong's Cathay Pacific said it would progressively reduce capacity to and from mainland China by 50% or more from Jan. 30 to the end of March.

The U.S. airline said on Jan. 29 it was reducing flights to China to 21 per week from 42, starting Feb. 6 through April 30.

Egypt's flag carrier said on Jan. 30 it would suspend all flights to and from China starting Feb. 1.

Delta Air Lines said it would temporarily suspend all remaining U.S.-China flights. Delta said earlier this week it was halving its U.S.-China schedule to about 21 weekly flights.

El Al Israel Airlines said on Jan. 30 it was suspending flights to Beijing until March 25. Israel's Health Ministry said it will not allow flights from China to land at its airports.

The African carrier on Jan. 30 denied reports it had suspended all flights to China. The airline's statement contradicted its passenger call center, which told Reuters earlier in the day that flights to China had been suspended.

Abu Dhabi's Etihad Airways said passenger flights between Beijing and Nagoya, in Japan, had been temporarily suspended due to low travel demand.

Finland's Finnair said on Jan. 31 it was canceling all flights to mainland China between Feb. 6 and Feb. 29 and to Guangzhou between Feb. 5 and March 29.

Kenya Airways said on Jan. 31 it has suspended all flights to China until further notice.

Indonesia's Lion Air Group said on Jan. 29 it would suspend all flights to China from February. The airline has suspended six flights from several Indonesian cities to China so far and will suspend the rest next month.

Polish carrier LOT said it had decided to temporarily suspend its flights to Beijing until Feb. 9.

Germany's Lufthansa said on Jan. 29 it was suspending Lufthansa, Swiss and Austrian Airlines flights to and from China until Feb. 9. The airline continues to fly to Hong Kong, but it will stop taking bookings for flights to mainland China until the end of February.

Moroccan airline Royal Air Maroc (RAM) has temporarily suspended its direct flights to China, the company said on Jan. 30. RAM had on Jan. 16 launched a direct air route with three flights weekly between its Casablanca hub and Beijing.

All Russian airlines, with the exception of national airline Aeroflot, will stop flying to China, Deputy Prime Minister Tatiana Golikova said.

Rwanda carrier RwandAir has halted flights to and from China until further notice, the airline said in a statement on Friday. The decision will be reviewed later in February, it said.

Nordic airline SAS said on Jan. 30 it has decided to suspend all flights to and from Shanghai and Beijing from Jan. 31 until Feb. 9.

SAS offers 12 regular weekly connections from and to Shanghai and Beijing.

Singapore airline Scoot said it was suspending all flights between Singapore and China from Feb. 8, media reported.

Shanghai Airlines said on Jan. 31 it would suspend its Chengdu-Budapest flight between Feb. 4 and March 28 and its Xi'an-Budapest flight between Feb. 6 and March 26 according to a statement on the website of the Budapest Airport operator.

Singapore Airlines Ltd said on Jan. 31 it would reduce capacity on some of its routes to mainland China in February.

The cuts include flights to Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Chengdu, Xiamen and Chongqing, some of which are flown by regional arm SilkAir. Its budget carrier Scoot is also cutting back on flights to China.

Turkey's flag carrier said on Jan. 30 it would decrease frequency on scheduled flights to Beijing, Guangzhou, Shanghai and Xian between Feb. 5 and Feb. 29.

Chicago-based United said it would implement a second phase of flight cancellations between its hub cities in the United States and Beijing, Hong Kong and Shanghai, resulting in 332 additional round trips being called off through March 28.

The cancellations will reduce the carrier's daily departures for mainland China and Hong Kong to four daily departures from 12.

United had previously suspended 24 U.S. flights to Beijing, Hong Kong and Shanghai between Feb. 1 and Feb. 8 because of a significant drop in demand.

UPS has canceled 22 China flights, as a result of the Wuhan quarantines and normal manufacturing closures due to the Lunar New Year holiday, UPS Chief Executive David Abney said on Jan. 30. He did not specify how many flights cancellations were due to the virus.

Vietnam's Vietjet will suspend all flights to and from China from Feb. 1, the company said on Jan. 31. Vietnam Airlines will suspend some flights to China.

Vietnam Airlines will suspend its flights to destinations in China next week over coronavirus concerns, the company said on Friday.

Virgin Atlantic said on Jan. 30 it would suspend its daily operations to Shanghai for two weeks from Feb. 2. It cited declining demand for flights and the safety of its customers and staff. (Compiled by Jagoda Darlak and Tommy Lund in Gdansk; editing by Jason Neely)