No confirmed Coronavirus cases on Central Flit, other folks maintain been examined – Invest Records 
 There maintain been zero confirmed cases of the Coronavirus in Monterey, Santa Cruz and San Benito Counties. The loss of life toll has risen to 170 within the current virus outbreak in China, with 7,711 cases reported within the nation. The US entirely has five confirmed cases, two being in southern California. Natividad Scientific Heart in Salinas confirmed that they’d screened patients within the final two weeks. “I will’t discuss particularly to how many cases Natividad has,” Natividad Scientific Heart chief of personnel Dr. Chad Harris acknowledged.In Monterey County three other folks maintain been examined complete and one has already near assist as detrimental. The outcomes of completely different checks are pending. “We did gather one detrimental result assist which became as soon as very reassuring,” Monterey County public successfully being officer Dr. Edward Moreno acknowledged Wednesday. “That must amassed reassure Monterey County that as the CDC has suggested, the risk that people which would maybe be living within the US of getting coronavirus is amassed low.”Dr. Moreno acknowledged that four other folks in Monterey County maintain been screened for Coronavirus, however the CDC entirely took 3 of these samples.”The CDC has a final relate on whether or not we take a look at,” Dr. Moreno acknowledged, adding that the CDC within the mean time is the entirely agency capable of attempting out for the Coronavirus. He moreover added how the screening route of works, “The local hospitals will prefer the specimen from the local physicians and these laboratories and the hospitals will carry it to our laboratory and then our laboratory will carry it to the CDC.”Dr. Harris acknowledged the entirely manner any individual will seemingly be examined is if they’ve been to Wuhan China within the past 14 days or if they’ve been in shut contact with any individual who went to Wuhan, China.”That unquestionably narrows the chance,” Dr. Harris acknowledged Wednesday adding that the probability of any individual on the Central Flit contracting the disease is, “very, very, very itsy-bitsy.”Both Dr. Harris and Dr. Moreno acknowledged they’ve protocols and procedures in situation to “isolate” any individual if they were to receive a definite take a look at for coronavirus.Moreno acknowledged it be seemingly the outcomes for the final 2 checks would maybe well near assist within the next 24-48 hours.Santa Cruz County’s Health Division moreover reported that they’d show cowl cowl several other folks but no one had the virus. San Benito County wouldn’t characterize how many people had been examined.“We’re monitoring the scenario closely to give protection to the successfully being of San Benito County residents and limit the spread of this virus,” acknowledged Dr. Marty Fenstersheib, San Benito County Health Officer.”Symptoms of CoronavirusTypically, human coronaviruses trigger gentle-to-reasonable respiratory illness. Symptoms are very akin to the flu, including fever, cough, congenstion, and/or shortness of breath. Older adults and other folks with underlying successfully being instances can be at increased risk for severe disease.Someone who has currently traveled from China, or came in shut contact with any individual who traveled from China, and develops a fever and decrease respiratory symptoms, such as a cough or shortness of breath within 14 days after leaving the condominium, must amassed first call their doctor or successfully being care supplier and portion rush historical past and symptoms earlier than visiting the sanatorium or emergency room.The Associated Press contributed to this legend.

There maintain been zero confirmed cases of the Coronavirus in Monterey, Santa Cruz and San Benito Counties. The loss of life toll has risen to 170 within the current virus outbreak in China, with 7,711 cases reported within the nation. The US entirely has five confirmed cases, two being in southern California. Natividad Scientific Heart in Salinas confirmed that they’d screened patients within the final two weeks. “I will’t discuss particularly to how many cases Natividad has,” Natividad Scientific Heart chief of personnel Dr. Chad Harris acknowledged. In Monterey County three other folks maintain been examined complete and one has already near assist as detrimental. The outcomes of completely different checks are pending. “We did gather one detrimental result assist which became as soon as very reassuring,” Monterey County public successfully being officer Dr. Edward Moreno acknowledged Wednesday. “That must amassed reassure Monterey County that as the CDC has suggested, the risk that people which would maybe be living within the US of getting coronavirus is amassed low.” Dr. Moreno acknowledged that four other folks in Monterey County maintain been screened for Coronavirus, however the CDC entirely took 3 of these samples. “The CDC has a final relate on whether or not we take a look at,” Dr. Moreno acknowledged, adding that the CDC within the mean time is the entirely agency capable of attempting out for the Coronavirus. He moreover added how the screening route of works, “The local hospitals will prefer the specimen from the local physicians and these laboratories and the hospitals will carry it to our laboratory and then our laboratory will carry it to the CDC.” The Monterey County Health Dept tells me they’ve CDC clearance to take a look at entirely 3 patients for Coronavirus within the county. One in all these checks has already near assist detrimental. Natividad sanatorium confirmed with me they’ve examined, but no confirmed cases; however they’re ready. pic.twitter.com/U6lveuz23L Dr. Harris acknowledged the entirely manner any individual will seemingly be examined is if they’ve been to Wuhan China within the past 14 days or if they’ve been in shut contact with any individual who went to Wuhan, China. “That unquestionably narrows the chance,” Dr. Harris acknowledged Wednesday adding that the probability of any individual on the Central Flit contracting the disease is, “very, very, very itsy-bitsy.” Both Dr. Harris and Dr. Moreno acknowledged they’ve protocols and procedures in situation to “isolate” any individual if they were to receive a definite take a look at for coronavirus. Moreno acknowledged it be seemingly the outcomes for the final 2 checks would maybe well near assist within the next 24-48 hours. Santa Cruz County’s Health Division moreover reported that they’d show cowl cowl several other folks but no one had the virus. San Benito County wouldn’t characterize how many people had been examined. “We’re monitoring the scenario closely to give protection to the successfully being of San Benito County residents and limit the spread of this virus,” acknowledged Dr. Marty Fenstersheib, San Benito County Health Officer.” In most cases, human coronaviruses trigger gentle-to-reasonable respiratory illness. Symptoms are very akin to the flu, including fever, cough, congenstion, and/or shortness of breath. Older adults and other folks with underlying successfully being instances can be at increased risk for severe disease. Someone who has currently traveled from China, or came in shut contact with any individual who traveled from China, and develops a fever and decrease respiratory symptoms, such as a cough or shortness of breath within 14 days after leaving the condominium, must amassed first call their doctor or successfully being care supplier and portion rush historical past and symptoms earlier than visiting the sanatorium or emergency room. The Associated Press contributed to this legend.