Oil eases as virus outbreak shakes economic growth predictions 
 NEW YORK (Reuters) - Oil prices were little changed on Friday but were on track for a fourth straight weekly loss, on mounting worries about economic damage from the coronavirus that has spread from China to around 20 countries, killing more than 200 people. 
FILE PHOTO: Oil pump jacks work at sunset near Midland, Texas, U.S., August 21, 2019. REUTERS/Jessica Lutz


Prices found some support after Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said on Friday that OPEC+ countries may react if there are significant consequences to the oil market due to the outbreak of coronavirus, Russian news agencies reported. 
Saudi Arabia has opened a discussion about moving up a scheduled March policy meeting to early February to address the outbreak’s impact on crude demand.    
“The cartel stands ready to act again if necessary but may accept the short-term pain for now on the expectation that the economic consequences won’t be as bad as people fear and price will bounce back to more acceptable levels on its own,” said Craig Erlam, senior market analyst at OANDA. 
Brent crude LCOc1 fell 5 cents to $58.24 a barrel by 12:03 p.m. EST (1703 GMT), down 4% on the week.  
U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) CLc1 fell 4 cents to $52.12 a barrel, down 3.8% on the week.      
The losses came after both benchmarks had risen more than $1 a barrel early in the session.     
Disruptions in supply chains and travel curbs prompted economists to temper growth expectations for China, the world’s second-largest economy. 
Investment bank Goldman Sachs said the outbreak is likely to shave 0.4 percentage point from China’s economic growth in 2020 and could also drag the U.S. economy lower. 
The outbreak could cut China’s oil demand by more than 250,000 barrels per day (bpd) in the first quarter, analysts said.          
“In our view, there still remains considerable uncertainty on the duration and economic impact of the virus,” said Harry Tchilinguirian, global oil strategist at BNP Paribas in London.   
(Graphic: China oil demand year-on-year change - here)          
Many companies planned to return to work on Friday after a week-long celebration of China’s Lunar New Year holiday, but authorities have ordered businesses in many areas to stay shut longer to contain the disease. 
Growth in China’s factory activity faltered in January. The Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) fell to 50.0 from 50.2 in December, China’s National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) said. The 50-point mark separates growth from contraction. 
A Reuters poll on Friday indicated oil prices should remain supported near current levels this year as political risks and OPEC-led output curbs offset growing supply.     
The poll of 50 economists and analysts was conducted mainly before the coronavirus outbreak.  
(Graphic: China oil demand year-on-year change - here) 
OPEC oil output plunged in January to a multi-year low as top exporter Saudi Arabia and other Gulf members overdelivered on a new production-limiting accord and Libyan supply dropped due to a blockade of ports and oilfields, a Reuters survey found. 
Still, global supplies remain abundant. U.S. crude production climbed 203,000 barrels per day to a record 12.9 million bpd in November, the U.S. Energy Information Administration said in a monthly report.   
Reporting by Devika Krishna Kumar in New York; Additonal reporting by Bozorgmehr Sharafedin in London and Roslan Khasawneh in Singapore; Editing by David Gregorio and Matthew Lewis