Coronavirus tests on 2 people in Oklahoma come back negative, health officials say 
 Coronavirus tests on 2 people in Oklahoma come back negative, health officials say

Oklahoma health officials announced Friday that coronavirus tests on two people in our state came back negative. According to the Oklahoma State Department of Health, officials received confirmation through laboratory testing conducted by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that two people under investigation in Oklahoma tested negative for the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).The virus originated in Wuhan, China, and has resulted in cases detected in several countries, including six laboratory-confirmed cases in the United States, officials said.Oklahoma health officials said they remain in contact with local, state and federal partners including the CDC, as they monitor the rapidly evolving situation locally and nationwide. As of Friday, there are no other people in Oklahoma who meet the established criteria for testing, officials said.Anyone who may have traveled to China in the last 14 days and is experiencing fever, cough or difficulty breathing, is urged to report their recent travel and symptoms to a health care provider before seeking treatment so that proper evaluation and infection control measures can be put in place, officials said. In the event of more suspected cases in Oklahoma, public health officials will work collectively with county health departments, health care providers and hospitals to arrange for testing with the CDC.The CDC advises the public to avoid all nonessential travel to China. It recommends people who must travel to China practice health precautions like avoiding contact with people who are sick and practicing good hand hygiene.

Oklahoma health officials announced Friday that coronavirus tests on two people in our state came back negative.

According to the Oklahoma State Department of Health, officials received confirmation through laboratory testing conducted by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that two people under investigation in Oklahoma tested negative for the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).

The virus originated in Wuhan, China, and has resulted in cases detected in several countries, including six laboratory-confirmed cases in the United States, officials said.

Oklahoma health officials said they remain in contact with local, state and federal partners including the CDC, as they monitor the rapidly evolving situation locally and nationwide.

As of Friday, there are no other people in Oklahoma who meet the established criteria for testing, officials said.

Anyone who may have traveled to China in the last 14 days and is experiencing fever, cough or difficulty breathing, is urged to report their recent travel and symptoms to a health care provider before seeking treatment so that proper evaluation and infection control measures can be put in place, officials said.

In the event of more suspected cases in Oklahoma, public health officials will work collectively with county health departments, health care providers and hospitals to arrange for testing with the CDC.

The CDC advises the public to avoid all nonessential travel to China. It recommends people who must travel to China practice health precautions like avoiding contact with people who are sick and practicing good hand hygiene.