Ole Gunnar Solskjaer discussed two names today in Man Utd transfer meeting at Carrington 
 Ole Gunnar Solskjaer held a transfer meeting with the Manchester United board this morning in which he discussed the possibility of a new signing on deadline day. The club are working hard to try and bring in a striker to bolster their ranks for the second half of the campaign.

Manchester United had been happy to stick with their current attacking options for the remainder of the season, until Marcus Rashford suffered a serious back injury.
The England international who is the top scorer for United this season has a double stress fracture in his back.
He will also undergo a surgical procedure to remove a piece of floating bone in his foot.
According to the Evening Standard, Solskjaer held talks with United officials at Carrington this morning to devise a strategy for the final day of the winter market.
JUST IN: Man Utd switch attention to new striker as Josh King transfer deadline day move collapses

Two players were reportedly discussed, with Joshua King top of the agenda.
United have since seen a £20million bid rejected by Bournemouth, who remain desperate to keep hold of the forward.
Yet the Red Devils have an alternative in mind, should they fail to prise King away from the Cherries.
That name is Odion Ighalo, who was said to be blow King in the list.
DON'T MISS
Cristiano Ronaldo wanted ‘dream’ Liverpool transfer before Man Utd snatched deal
Man Utd scouts drool over Maxi Gomez after Ole Gunnar Solskjaer transfer assignment
Man Utd could complete shock transfer deal for striker because of coronavirus

But following Bournemouth’s strong stance on King, Ighalo now tops the list.
Bournemouth are not prepared to let King leave unless they find a replacement.
That is proving a difficult task with the clock ticking and King now appears likely to remain on the South Coast.
Sky Sports reporter James Cooper said earlier today that the Norwegian has been in limbo over his future.

“I imagine his world is in absolute turmoil at the moment, he doesn’t know whether he will be a Bournemouth player at the end of the window or maybe be back at Manchester United,” Cooper said.
“I think the reality is and the facts of the matter are that Manchester United made a bid last night, they were rebuffed by Bournemouth but I think the lines of communication are very much open.
“I think should Bournemouth find another striker, and I’m led to believe they are looking for other options, then the way would be clear you would think for Manchester United to come in with a second bid probably for Joshua King and then bring him back to Manchester United.”
Solskjaer worked with King during his time coaching Manchester United reserves.

Earlier this year he heaped praise on the forward, after he scored the winner against United.
“They got the first goal. A moment of magic, I must say, through Josh,” Solskjaer said.
“I’ve followed Josh since he came to United and before then when he was 15 or 16. He has developed into a top player and is doing well for Bournemouth and Norway.
“I’m not happy he scored against us but it’s great to see him having a good career.”