China deploys drones to bark orders at citizens without face masks 
 CHINA has deployed terrifying drones to bark orders at people seen outside not wearing face masks amid the coronavirus outbreak.

The move is part of a bid to halt the spread of the condition, which has so far killed 213 and infected more than 9,800 people globally.

Footage published by the Global Times, which has close ties to the Chinese government, shows people looking up in surprise as a person speaking through the drone begins scolding them for being outside.

One elderly woman alone on a rural road is told: "Yes, this is the drone speaking to you.

"You shouldn't walk about without wearing a mask.

"We've been telling people to stay at home but you still wander outside.

"Now a drone is watching you."

One man trying to remove snow from a trailer is told: "We are in unusual times.

"The snow will melt itself in a few months, right?

"Isn't is comfortable to stay at home with food and drinks?"

Seeing the man isn't taking the warning very seriously, the voice adds: "Don't laugh.

"Get on your cart and go home immediately."

One child is seen being stopped and told: "Hey kid! You don't even wear a mask!

He is then seen turning in the opposite direction to the one in which he'd been walking and running back down the street.

Many social media users reacted with horror to the footage.

"Erm, this is very very creepy," wrote on.

"I have to admire the guy loading up his truck and laughing at the Skynet surveillance state drone" wrote another.

Skynet is a fictional superintelligence system and the main antagonist in the Terminator film series.

Authorities in China have also introduced travel restrictions and city-wide quarantines to try to slow the continuing spread of the coronavirus, which began in the eastern city of Wuhan in mid-December.

UK authorities this morning confirmed that two people in Newscastle had been quarantined after being found to have the virus.

Up to 2,000 were in Wuhan when the outbreak occurred, with those returning set to be put in quantantine for two weeks.

Health Secretary Matt Hancock tweeted on Wednesday: "We are working hard to get British nationals back from Wuhan.

"Anyone who returns from Wuhan will be safely isolated for 14 days, with all neccessary medical attention."

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.