Dow drops 500 points as worries grow about economic impact of coronavirus 
 Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

Stocks fell broadly on Friday, wiping out the Dow Jones Industrial Average’s gain for January, as investors grew increasingly worried about the potential economic impact of China’s fast-spreading coronavirus.

The Dow dropped 525 points and fell to its low of the session after Delta and American suspended all flights between China and the U.S. The S&P 500 was down 1.5 percent, while the Nasdaq Composite dipped by 1 percent.

China’s National Health Commission confirmed on Friday that there have been 9,692 confirmed cases of the coronavirus, with 213 deaths.

The World Health Organization recognized the deadly pneumonia-like virus as a global health emergency on Thursday, citing concern that the outbreak continues to spread to other countries with weaker health systems. WHO’s designation was made to help the United Nations health agency mobilize financial and political support to contain the outbreak.

The virus, which was first discovered in the Chinese city of Wuhan, has now spread to at least 18 other countries and has dampened sentiment over global economic growth.

“The outbreak of the coronavirus has added another headwind to the near-term outlook for stocks,” Peter Berezin, chief global strategist at BCA Research, said in a note. “Viruses often become less lethal as they mutate because a virus that kills its host is also a virus that kills itself. Unfortunately, in a world of mass travel, a virus can spread across the globe before it has time to lose potency.”

Las Vegas Sands and Wynn Resorts, two stocks that are coronavirus proxies, given their gaming exposure in China, fell more than 1.5 percent each. Airline stocks such as American and United dropped more than 2.5 percent each, while Delta slid 2 percent.

The major averages saw an uptick in volatility this month as investors grappled with rising tensions between Iran and the U.S., trade worries with China and the coronavirus scare.

Still, the S&P 500 was on pace for its fifth straight monthly gain, gaining 0.9 percent in January. The Nasdaq is up 3.1 percent and is also on track for a five-month winning streak. The Dow, however, was headed for its first monthly loss since August.

The Cboe Volatility Index, or fear gauge, rose to above 18 this month from 13.78, a gain of more than 30 percent.