Coronavirus cure: WATCH as disease grown in lab and distributed across the world 
 Coronavirus has killed 170 people in China with 7,711 confirmed cases in the country as of January 29. The World Health Organisation declared the deadly virus an international public health emergency following an emergency committee meeting. It comes as 81 British people have been transported from China to the UK.

The lab-grown coronavirus will be replicated and distributed for more in-depth analysis around the world.
It was dubbed “a major breakthrough” by Dr. Julian Druce, the institute’s virus-identification laboratory head.
Coronavirus has since reached the UK with two confirmed cases as health officials urgently trace those who came into contact with them.
Public Health England (PHE) confirmed that the two people taken ill had been staying in York when they became unwell.
READ MORE: Coronavirus UK: What does UK outbreak mean for Britain?

The pair are being treated by Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust in its specialist Airborne High Consequences Infectious Disease Centre (HCID).
It is understood that they travelled to the UK from China recently and are undergoing treatment at the Newcastle Royal Victoria Infirmary.
Professor Sharon Peacock, director of the National Infection Service at PHE, said: "Public Health England is contacting people who had close contact with the confirmed cases.
"The two cases were staying in York when they became unwell.

"Close contacts will be given health advice about symptoms and emergency contact details to use if they become unwell in the 14 days after contact with the confirmed cases.
"This tried-and-tested method will ensure we are able to minimise any risk to them and the wider public."
Earlier, Prof Peacock said that while staff are working to trace people who have been in contact with the pair, they do not currently have "any idea" of how high that number might be.
On Wednesday night, the StayCity apartment-hotel in York was put on lockdown when some family members, believed to be Chinese nationals, were taken to hospital after falling ill.
DON'T MISS
Coronavirus: Italy declares state of emergency [INSIGHT]
Coronavirus fury: Wirral residents panicked by quarantine centre [INSIGHT]
Top Scottish medic says killer virus will be here 'within days' [VIDEO]

It comes after more than 80 Britons on an evacuation flight from the Chinese city at the centre of the outbreak landed back in the UK.
The flight, carrying 83 Britons and 27 non-UK nationals, mostly from EU countries, arrived at the Brize Norton RAF base in Oxfordshire at around 1.30pm.
The UK passengers are being taken to Arrowe Park Hospital in Wirral for a quarantine period of 14 days, where they will be housed in an NHS staff accommodation block with access to the internet.
Ministers said the Government will send another plane to coronavirus-hit Wuhan to rescue British citizens if needed.