Harry & Meg 'look for LA home with meeting room for summer' as showbiz return mooted 
 MEGHAN Markle and Prince Harry are looking for home in LA complete with meeting rooms and an entertainment area, it has been claimed.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex moved to Canada after revealing they were stepping down as royals - but could now be considering a return to Meghan's California birthplace.

 Meghan Markle and Prince Harry are considering a move to LA, it has been claimedCredit: Getty Images - Getty
Speaking to E! Online, a source said: "They have started to look at homes online and are in the process of interviewing security teams. They are getting their ducks in a row and seeing if it's logistically possible.

"Meghan would like to be able to do meetings at the house and also be able to host friends and entertain. Those are two things that are important to her."

And it was reported the couple are already looking to assemble a team of locals to help start their new life after leaving the UK.

The former Hollywood actress grew up in Los Angeles, making the move all the more appealing.

Her yoga teacher mum, Doria Ragland, 63, still lives in the city.

Suggestions the couple are considering making LA their new home comes after it was reported Meghan is looking for an agent in a possible return to showbiz.

It was claimed she is actively looking for representation after she and Harry declared they wanted to become "financially independent" as they quit the Royal Family.

A source told Us Weekly the 38-year-old is "actively looking" for a manager or agent for future projects.

They said: "It can be a manager or an agent, but she’s reaching out to people to find someone to represent her for future professional projects."

The Sun Online has contacted Buckingham Palace for comment.

SUITS YOU?

In her first acting gig since quitting the screen after marrying Prince Harry, Meghan has signed a deal with Disney in return for a donation to a wildlife charity.

The Duchess of Sussex will do the voiceover to help fund Elephants Without Borders, an organisation that helps to track and protect the animals from poaching.

Six months earlier Prince Harry was overheard appearing to lay the groundwork for this move.

He was filmed revealing Meghan's interest to Bob Iger, the Disney chief at the London premiere of the Lion King in July.

The Duke, 35, pointed to his wife and said in hushed tones: "You do know she does voiceovers?"

Mr Iger, looking surprised, replies "ah I did not know that", before Harry continues "you seem surprised, she's really interested".

The Disney bigwig says: "We'd love to try. That's a great idea."

Latest



bed bugs
 Hunt for infected as 1st coronavirus victims found at York hotel  it's still OPEN 

CAM OFF IT!
 Builder, 53, says Megxit is cover-up to hide that he's Charles  Camilla's son 

SPRING CLEAN
 Shoppers amazed that Dettol kills coronavirus - as it's listed on bottles 

Exclusive


PURE TORMENT
 I took in helpless baby who was abandoned after mum, 14, was raped by own dad 

Exclusive



UNIVERSALLY WRONG
 Universal Credit Mum forced to loans to fund childcare takes DWP to court 

LIVING THE DREAM
 UK's 50 best places to live revealed - does your hometown make the list? 







Meanwhile, one royal expert claimed Meghan and Harry had not only shaken the boat - they had capsized it with their dramatic announcement.

And their decision to quit the royal family saw their popularity on Instagram skyrocket.

Brand expert Ronn Torossian, CEO of PR firm 5W Public Relations, told the Sun Online that the boost in their social media standing could be instrumental in achieving their fortune, and they could rack up £190,000 per post.

 Meghan and Harry are currently in CanadaCredit: Getty Images - Getty

Astonishing moment Prince Harry appears to tout Meghan Markle for a Disney voiceover job as he's seen explaining her credentials to Hollywood mogul Bob Iger