What Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said about Man Utd transfer target Josh King earlier this season 
 Manchester United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has made no secret of the fact he is a big fan of Joshua King as he tries to lure the striker to the club on deadline day. Bournemouth are desperate to keep hold of the forward and hope he can help them survive the drop.

Earlier this season, United were beaten 1-0 on the road at Bournemouth and coincidentally it was King who scored the winner.
After the game, Solskjaer embraced King and reports have emerged today that he told him at that moment he would one day try and bring him to Manchester United.
That now looks to have happened and in the light of speculation, Solskjaer’s post-match quotes from after the game at the Vitality Stadium in November have emerged.
“They got the first goal. A moment of magic, I must say, through Josh,” Solskjaer said.
JUST IN: Man Utd identify surprise striker target after missing out on Krzysztof Piatek transfer

“I’ve followed Josh since he came to United and before then when he was 15 or 16. He has developed into a top player and is doing well for Bournemouth and Norway.
“I’m not happy he scored against us but it’s great to see him having a good career.”
United’s initial offer of £20m for King was rejected last night.
It’s a fee that is more expensive than the £18m quoted for Erling Braut Haaland.
DON'T MISS
Cristiano Ronaldo wanted ‘dream’ Liverpool transfer before Man Utd snatched deal
Man Utd scouts drool over Maxi Gomez after Ole Gunnar Solskjaer transfer assignment
Man Utd could complete shock transfer deal for striker because of coronavirus

Both forwards play for the Norway national team and therefore have that link to Solskjaer.
Speaking during the morning of deadline day, Solskjaer refused to rule out activity from United’s end.
“Sometimes I say something here and something else happens,” he said. Sometimes I say I am happy with a player and he gets a different message.
“So I don’t want to help or make speculation grow more and more today. I expect nothing to happen but that doesn’t mean it can’t happen.”

King played under Solskjaer for United’s reserve team before he moved onto Blackburn Rovers.
Eddie Howe did admit that United have made an approach for his player.
“I’m not going to deny anything that you’ve read, but I don’t want to talk too much about it,” the Bournemouth manager said on Friday morning.
“There’s still a day to go and who knows what’s going to happen between now and the deadline.

“Josh is much valued and loved by us and obviously another club has seen how good he is, so let’s wait and see.”
Howe did however, claim a deal was unlikely with such little time to spare.
“I think the difficulty from our perspective is how late it is in the window, with a day to go it’s incredibly difficult to find a replacement for a player of that quality,” he added.