Amaravati: Minister Nani allays fears on coronavirus 
 Amaravati: As the Coronavirus disease is spreading fast in several countries from China, Minister for Health and Medical Education Alla Kalikrishna Srinivas (Nani), allayed the fears of the people of the state and said that the government was taking all cenecessary measures in this regard. 'The AP government has been taking precautionary measures to protect people from the Coronavirus. So far, no case reported in the State. Still, the government is putting all efforts for preventive measures,' he added.
A 'novel coronavirus' (nCoV), which claimed at least 170 lives in China alone in a span of one month, is a new strand of Coronavirus that has not been previously identified in humans. The Chinese authorities identified the new type of coronavirus, which was isolated on January 7. 
On December 31, 2019, the WHO's China country office was informed of cases of pneumonia unknown etiology (unknown cause) detected in Wuhan City, Hubei Province of China, according to the first situation report released by the World Health Organization (WHO) on January 21, 2020. 
From December 31 through January 3, a total of 44 case-patients with pneumonia of unknown etiology were reported to the WHO by national authorities in China. During the reported period, the causal agent was not identified. 
It spread from China to Japan, Republic of Korea, Vietnam, Singapore, Australia, Malaysia, Cambodia, Thailand, Nepal, Sri Lanka, India, United States of America, Canada, France, Finland, Germany, United Arab Emirates as on January 30, based on the official reports of WHO. And now it is reported in Kerala. 
First confirmed cases of 2019-nCoV acute respiratory disease in all the countries had travel history to Wuhan City in China. 
Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that are known to cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). 
Detailed investigations found that SARS-CoV was transmitted from civet cats to humans in China in 2002 and MERS-CoV from dromedary camels to humans in Saudi Arabia in 2012. Several known coronaviruses are circulating in animals that have not yet infected humans. As surveillance improves around the world, more coronaviruses are likely to be identified.
 
Country Situation in Numbers Confirmed /suspected 
 
China 7,736 confirmed 
 12,167 suspected 
 1,370 severe 
 170 deaths 
Globally 7,818 Outside of China 
18 countries 82 confirmed
It depends on the virus, but common signs include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, shortness of breath, and breathing difficulties. In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and even death. 
There is no specific treatment for disease caused by a novel coronavirus. However, many of the symptoms can be treated and therefore treatment based on the patient's clinical condition. Moreover, supportive care for infected persons can be highly effective. 
Standard recommendations suggested by the WHO to reduce exposure to and transmission of a range of illnesses include maintaining basic hand and respiratory hygiene, and safe food practices, avoiding close contact, when possible, with anyone showing symptoms of respiratory illness such as coughing and sneezing. 
WHO encouraged all countries to enhance their surveillance for severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), to carefully review any unusual patterns of SARI or pneumonia cases and to notify WHO of any suspected or confirmed case of infection with novel coronavirus. Countries are encouraged to continue strengthening their preparedness for health emergencies in line with the International Health Regulations (2005).