Delta, American Airlines to suspend flights to China amid coronavirus outbreak 
 Delta and American Airlines announced Friday they plan to halt all flights to and from mainland China as the number of coronavirus cases in that country jumped from about 800 to nearly 10,000 in a week.American Airlines said the temporary suspension is effective immediately and will continue through at least March 27. Delta’s suspension begins Monday and runs through at least April 30, the company said in a statement.Both airlines, which had already reduced service to China, said they will continue to monitor the situation and will make adjustments if necessary.The announcements come amid growing fears of an international epidemic, which on Thursday led the U.S. Department of State to issue a Level 4 travel alert urging Americans to stay away from China. The department also urged those who are still in the country to consider departing immediately. The World Health Organization has declared the growing crisis a global emergency, a rarely used designation that will trigger a coordinated international response.Chinese authorities on Friday said the newly discovered virus has killed at least 213 people and sickened about 9,700 others, with the vast majority of cases reported in the central province of Hubei and its capital, Wuhan, which is considered the epicenter of the outbreak.The pneumonia-like infection has spread to more than a dozen other countries, including the U.S., where six patients have been diagnosed with the illness in the past few days. All but one of them had recently traveled to Wuhan. The sixth person contracted the virus from his wife, a Chicago woman who had just returned from that Chinese city.Delta said its suspension would start next week to ensure customers who are looking to leave China have options to do so. United Airlines was expected to follow suit, but the company was still operating flights to the country on Friday. Several other major airlines — including Air France, British Airways and Scandinavian Airlines — had already suspended service to China earlier this week. American Airlines made its decision a day after a union representing thousands of pilots sued the carrier to halt its U.S-China operations. A separate union representing flight attendants celebrated the announcement Friday. “The health and safety of our crew members and customers are always our main concern," Lori Bassani, national president of the Association of Professional Flight Attendants, said in a statement. "This concern is magnified with the Coronavirus, a fast moving, possibly deadly virus that has become a worldwide concern.”