Global stocks slide on coronavirus and growth fears 
 Wall Street is following European shares lower on escalating worries about the
impact of the coronavirus on global growth. 

Beijing has confirmed that the death toll linked to the epidemic has risen to
213, on top of an additional 9,811 confirmed cases, two of which are in the UK.

US stocks opened lower, with the S 500 down 0.9 per cent and the Dow Jones
Industrial Average falling more than 1 per cent. However, strong earnings from
Amazon supported the tech-weighted Nasdaq Composite, which has slipped 0.7 per
cent.

Weighing on European stocks alongside coronavirus fears was economic data that
showed the eurozone’s fourth-quarter growth in 2019 was only 0.1 per cent, below
expectations of 0.2 per cent.

Bourses in Paris and Frankfurt are both down more than 1 per cent, while the
Stoxx Europe 600 is 0.9 per cent lower, leaving the continent-wide benchmark
down almost 3 per cent for the week. 

Eurorstat data revealed the eurozone ended last year with a whimper, as the
French and Italian economies both shrank unexpectedly, denting hopes that the
region was poised to rebound from its recent sluggish performance.

“The main question now is whether the looming threat of a sudden stop in Q1
global activity — due to disruptions over the coronavirus — will drag eurozone
GDP growth down even further,” said Claus Vistesen, chief eurozone economist at
Pantheon Macroeconomics.

Government bonds in the eurozone extended their gains this week following the
disappointing growth data, pushing yields to fresh lows for the year. The yields
on the 10-year German Bunds and UK gilts are down 2 basis point to minus 0.42
per cent and 0.53 per cent, respectively.

Bonds have already rallied significantly in recent days as fear over the spread
of coronavirus has fuelled demand for haven assets.

“The market impact of the coronavirus outbreak in China . . . increasingly
resembles last year’s trade-war-driven turmoil in May and August,” said Jonas
Goltermann at Capital Economics. “But unless the fallout from the epidemic
escalates significantly, it is hard to see the sharp falls in bond yields
persisting.”

Worries surrounding the coronavirus have unsurprisingly hit Asian markets, with
the World Health Organisation’s declaring on Thursday that its spread now
constitutes a public health emergency. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng closed down 0.5 per
cent while South Korea’s Kospi ended its session 1.33 per cent lower.

Goldman Sachs estimates that the epidemic will lower annual average Chinese GDP
by 0.4 per cent, which will have a spillover effect on US growth in the first
quarter of the year. “The drag on growth operates mostly through lower tourism
from China and lower US goods exports to China,” its analysts wrote.

Concerns about weaker global demand for oil continues to hit Brent crude, which
is down 0.2 per cent to $58.20 a barrel while WTI, the US marker, is 0.9 per
cent lower at $52.20 a barrel.