The kids will be all right 
 The greatest irony of all of course is it will probably be our children who will end up protecting and saving us from the mess we've created.

OPINION: I'm tired. It's 5am and the house is quiet.

As a mum of three small children the tranquillity of a still morning with a coffee in hand always holds so much promise. The time in between, before daybreak gives life to the chaos of raising three small humans.

Just like every other morning, I know they'll arrive with a collection of breakfast demands because someone once helpfully told them; "taste buds change as you get older". Because of this, at 8, 6 and 2, they couldn't possibly all like the same things at once.

READ MORE:

 * Imported methamphetamine halves street price of P, police say

 * Helping your kid develop resilience

 * Anna Guy: Life through our kids' eyes

The oldest doesn't like peanut butter or any form of fruit. The middle one won't eat eggs because her day care teacher once showed her where chickens come from and the smallest one, well, as a third child she just gets a bit of what everyone else is having and I hope for the best.

Picking your battles is key to survival with young children. And so, I oblige.

Yesterday was hard. We've had nearly seven weeks of boredom, playing and visiting and friends and family and rivers and beaches and picnics and everyone is ready for school to start back and the routine to resume. Today is a new day. But I am a mum, who also works from home, and as the school holidays come to an end, I am tired.

There are days when the job of raising small humans weighs heavily. We're all doing our perfectly imperfect best. It's survival in a constantly changing and challenging world.

A world where coronavirus pandemics skip the boarders of multiple countries in days, soaring high on international flights and walking through customs with a brochure in hand while we make jokes about selling a beer.

A world where we deny the effects of climate change as wildfires burn out of control, turning the sky we all share orange.

A country where methamphetamine fills our waterways, as a by-product of our destroyed families and communities.

A country where we keep building roads which will be clogged with cars before they barely finished and all the while we continue to promise to reduce carbon emissions.

And a country where we spend billions of dollars on infrastructure to stimulate our economy while New Zealand parents still starve themselves three days a week so they can feed their children.

I'm not one to normally dwell in melancholy but how did we got here and what on earth are we supposed to tell our children about this world we now find ourselves in? This mess we will be leaving them of calamity, casualty and hardship.

As parents we all make silent promises to ourselves. To keep our children safe. To do a little better than the generation before. We vaccinate them against disease, and we work hard to keep them fed, clothed and housed. Those promises we make are becoming increasingly hard to keep, however.

We tell them to clean their rooms and to tidy up their mess. To take responsibility for their things. To own up to their mistakes and to show kindness and care for those around them. But in the world where they now live, it's a case of do as I say, not necessarily as I do.

Our children are not immune to the place we now find ourselves in. They see the face masks and hazmat suits on images through the news, and we're set to teach climate change to them in our schools. They all saw the orange sky a few weeks ago. They know the children who come to school with no lunch and they know of others who basically raise themselves as their parents' do battle with P.

I don't suggest we should be shielding them from all of this either. The problem of course is the future our children will face as adults is being determined by the decisions' we're all making today.

As we've witnessed with the spread of disease like coronavirus and our orange coloured skies as Australia burned, the world has become an increasingly cramped and small place and whether we admit it or not, we're all stuck here together. The choices we make are affecting us all and they will settle the kind of world we will leave for our children.

Every day I am grateful to have been given these amazing small humans to raise, even if some days my gratefulness is through tired, gritted teeth. It was our choice to bring them into this world, not theirs. The greatest irony of all of course is it will probably be our children who will end up protecting and saving us from the mess we've created.

So, as the coffee boils on the stove top I'm thinking about the promise of a new day. A chance to do over the tired mess that was yesterday.

The school holidays are nearly over and for today, at least, my children can do whatever they want.