Coronavirus remedy as Dettol bottles state they destroy killer disease 
 Dettol is being championed as the way to avoid coronavirus with people surprised to find the simple disinfectant wipes out the killer germ and it already says it on the back of bottles.

Cleaning down surfaces can get rid of the killer bug, that can linger for 45 minutes, before it infects more people.

On the back of Dettol bottles, it reads: “Kills E.Coli, salmonella, MRSA, rotavirus, flu virus, cold viruses, human coronavirus and RSV.”

A stunned shopper was surprised how coronavirus was already on the label with the deadly bug appearing to have come from nowhere in China.

He wrote: “This kills coronavirus how did they know about it in 2019.”

The reason is that coronavirus covers a wide range of viruses ranging from everyday colds to more severe illnesses like SARS.

A new strain called 2019-nCoV is what has emerged in China a month ago which was not previously identified in humans.

The virus, which is thought to have jumped from animals to humans in Wuhan, can spread by touching contaminated surfaces the World Health Organisation has said.

It means Dettol and other household cleaners are a simple way to limit the spread of the virus.

So far 213 people have died from coronavirus in China with more than 9,000 cases confirmed.

Experts have warned people not to use Dettol for anything other than cleaning down surfaces.

Jonathan Ball, Professor of Molecular Virology, Nottingham University, told The Sun: "Coronaviruses have what we call a lipid envelope – an outer layer made up of oil-like substances, and this layer is sensitive to the action of soap and many disinfectants.

"If the manufacturers have tested their product against the existing coronavirus it will work against the novel coronavirus, as indeed would simple soap and hot water.

"But of course, these should only ever be used to clean surface and can not be taken internally."

People are being told to be as hygienic as possible to combat the virus.

Dr Daniel Atkinson, clinical lead at Treated.com, said: "Hygiene is incredibly important to ward off any viruses.

"Make sure to wash your hands thoroughly - for at least 20 seconds - and cover your mouth and nose when you cough or sneeze.

"If you can, avoid contact with sick people and avoid shaking hands with anyone displaying flu-like symptoms."

It comes as the first two coronavirus patients have been confirmed in the UK and are being treated in Newcastle.