UC Berkeley draws outrage for calling xenophobia a ‘normal’ reaction to coronavirus outbreak 
 The University of California, Berkeley was forced to delete an Instagram post Thursday that included xenophobia as one of several “normal reactions" to the deadly coronavirus outbreak, which has sickened nearly 10,000 people in China and is now a global health emergency. Berkeley’s University Health Services explained that the growing crisis can lead to a series of symptoms among those who are concerned about the disease. Those so-called “common reactions” include anxiety, panic, anger, difficulty concentrating, hyper vigilance and even xenophobia, the prestigious school puzzlingly claimed.“Xenophobia: fears about interacting with those who might be from Asia and guilt about these feelings,” the post read. The shocking message, which was also featured in the university’s wellness page, was deleted after going viral on social media and drawing fury among numerous people, including alumni.this just in from the number one public university in the world: it’s okay to be xenophobic as long as you also feel sort of guilty about it pic.twitter.com/cvnHnpHTz9 Angie Chen (@angiechen__) January 30, 2020 Dr. Dustin Glasner, who described himself as a “proud” Asian American alum, called the post “truly unacceptable.”“Stop normalizing racism,” he tweeted on Thursday. “It is not normal, and racist reactions to the current coronavirus outbreak are NOT OKAY.”Another alum, Adrienne Shih, said she was “angry and ashamed.”“Seems like they’ve since deleted the post,” she tweeted. “But deleting (is not) an apology. In fact, it’s just sweeping it under the rug and not owning up to something deeply problematic and hurtful.”The university did apologize, in a tweet, less than two hours later. “We apologize for our recent post on managing anxiety around Coronavirus,” school officials wrote. “We regret any misunderstanding it may have caused and have updated the language in our materials.”Nearly 6,200 Chinese students are enrolled at UC Berkeley’s undergraduate and graduate schools, according to the university’s website.The mysterious new virus is believed to have originated at an animal and seafood market in Wuhan, a crowded metropolis in central China’s Hubei province. Since it was first discovered in December, the viral infection has killed at least 213 people in China and spread to more than a dozen other countries, including the U.S.American health officials have acknowledged the seriousness of the threat and advised against traveling to China, but they insist that the risk to the U.S. population remains low. Only six U.S. patients have been diagnosed with the pneumonia-like virus so far.