Man Utd prepare final last minute transfer bid for Josh King after Odion Ighalo problem 
 Manchester United have directed attention back towards Joshua King after encountering problems with the potential signing of Odion Ighalo. Ed Woodward and the Old Trafford hierarchy are trying their best to land a striker before the window slams shut at 11pm.

The club stepped up their efforts to sign Josh King last night when they saw a £20million offered rejected.
Mixed reports earlier today stated that United had upped their offer for King, but those links died down this afternoon.
However now, according to Sky Italia’s Fabrizio Romano, United are exploring the possibility of returning for King again.
That’s because they’ve encountered problems in their pursuit of Ighalo, who has extortionate wages at Shanghai Shenhua.
JUST IN: Man Utd switch attention to new striker as Josh King transfer deadline day move collapses

“There is small time to do this deal,” Romano said during an Instagram live video with 4-3-3.
“The wage and the salary of this player is so high (Ighalo) so at the moment it is so complicated to do this Odion deal.
“For Odion Ighalo, Manchester United are trying.
“They understand it is so complicated so Manchester United are trying again to see if it’s possible to sign Joshua King.
DON'T MISS
Cristiano Ronaldo wanted ‘dream’ Liverpool transfer before Man Utd snatched deal
Man Utd scouts drool over Maxi Gomez after Ole Gunnar Solskjaer transfer assignment
Man Utd could complete shock transfer deal for striker because of coronavirus

 

“Trying for Odion Ighalo, as we say is not easy.
“Ighalo and Joshua King are the last option for Manchester United.
“We will see who will be the striker because Solskjaer today had a meeting with the club and board and he is waiting for a striker.
“Manchester United are so on fire at the moment to find a striker.”

Ighalo is also reportedly the subject of interest from Tottenham.
The player’s agent is keen to find the Nigerian a new club for the rest of the season.
That’s because the start of the Chinese Super League season has been suspended until further notice due to the coronavirus.
Ighalo is understood to be currently training with his team-mates for pre-season.