Delta Air Lines suspends all U.S. to China flights 
 Delta announced Friday it will temporarily suspend all U.S. to China flights beginning Feb. 6 through April 30 "due to ongoing concerns related to the coronavirus." 


"Between now and Feb. 5, Delta will continue to operate flights to ensure customers looking to exit China have options to do so," the airline said in a news release.


            
            
        The airline made the decision after the Center for Disease Controls on Thursday declared the coronavirus a global health emergency. As of early Friday afternoon, 9700 of coronavirus had been confirmed in China, and at least 213 people had died. There are  more than 140 confirmed cases of the virus outside mainland China, including six in the United States.


The last China-bound flight departing the U.S. will leave on Monday, Feb. 3 with the last return flight back to the U.S. departing China on Feb. 5. Delta said it will continue to monitor the situation closely and may make additional adjustments as the situation continues to evolve. 


Delta currently operates 42 weekly flights between the U.S. and China, including daily service connecting Beijing and Detroit and Seattle, and Shanghai and Atlanta, Detroit, Los Angeles and Seattle.


On Wednesday afternoon, Delta said it was temporarily reducing its number of weekly flights between the U.S. and China due to "significantly reduced customer demand prompted by global health concerns related to coronavirus." At the time the airline said it wanted to "maintain options" for its customers but that it would continue to monitor the situation.


Chicago-based United Airlines on Tuesday became the first major carrier to cancel flights between the United States and China. A spokesperson for the carrier said the decision to suspend the flights was based on “a significant decline in demand for travel to China," Chicago Business Journal reported. American Airlines on Wednesday canceled flights between Los Angeles and Beijing and Shanghai, CNBC reported. American will continue its service to China from Dallas/Ft. Worth, and it will continue service to Hong Kong from Los Angeles.