Coronavirus could mutate & become even DEADLIER, leading expert warns 
 THE coronavirus could mutate and become deadlier as it continues to spread, a leading virologist has said.

The warning comes as the death toll from the outbreak reaches 213, and the total numbers of cases to have been confirmed globally climbs to more than 9,800.

Authorities in China and elsewhere are currently working to contain the spread of the virus.

Among the groups working on fast-tracked efforts to develop a vaccine is the Australian Animal Health Laboratory at the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO), the Australian government agency responsible for scientific research.

Speaking to The Australian newspaper, Professor Trevor Drew, who serves as director of the lab, said the outbreak should be thought of as a "cloud" of very similar pathogens rather than one virus, and that a high-density population like that in China could allow it to evolve.

"You may well find that more virulent viruses emerge from that cloud," he said.

"What I am thinking might be happening here is not that people have been infected for some time with this virus, but that it is finding a new niche rather more slowly and that could ultimately cause more of a problem than we have seen with other diseases because it is not so spectacular early on in its evolution."

It is estimated that preclinical trials of a vaccine for the coronavirus could begin by March, and that a vaccine could be available within four months.

Speaking to reporters today, Rob Grenfell, the CSIRO's Director of Health and Biosecurity: "Our role is to take the knowledge that we will be gaining from how this virus behaves and then... developing and trialling vaccine candidates."

The Australian government is currently in the process of evaucating around 600 Austrlian cities from the eastern Chinese city of Wuhan, where the outbreak is believed to have begun.

It currently plans to quarantine them on the overseas territory of Christmas Island, which sits around 200 miles south of Indonesia in the Indian Ocean, for two weeks after the evacuation.

The outbreak has seen Wuhan and a number of other cities within China placed on lockdown, affecting around 60 million people.

UK authorities this morning confirmed that two people in Newscastle had been quarantined after being found to have the virus.

Up to 2,000 Brits were in Wuhan when the outbreak occurred, with those returning also set to be put in quantantine for two weeks.

Health Secretary Matt Hancock tweeted on Wednesday: "We are working hard to get British nationals back from Wuhan.

"Anyone who returns from Wuhan will be safely isolated for 14 days, with all neccessary medical attention."

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.