Man Utd agree Odion Ighalo transfer in principal as Ole Gunnar Solskjaer eyes late deal 
 Manchester United have agreed a deal in principal to sign Odion Ighalo on a six-month deal according to Sky Sports. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has been desperate to land a striker on a temporary deal before the 11pm deadline, now he could finally have his wish granted.

United launched a £20million bid for Joshua King last night but their approach was rebuffed by Bournemouth.
Attentions now look to have turned to Ighalo, with his agent keen on earning him a move back to Europe.
Sky Sports reporter Dharmesh Sheth has now claimed a deal has been agreed in principal for Ighalo.
"If the Josh King deal wasn’t going to happen, then they would then look towards Odion Ighalo – it looks like that deal is back on the table," Sheth said on the Transfer Show.
"One source has told me a deal might have been agreed in principle now with Manchester United for a six-month loan deal.
JUST IN: Man Utd switch attention to new striker as Josh King transfer deadline day move collapses

"That would be perfect for Manchester United as they are looking for a short term replacement for Marcus Rashford."
The Chinese Super League has currently been suspended due to the outbreak of the coronavirus.
For that reason, Ighalo is looking to return to Europe with a late move to England firmly on the agenda.
Tottenham have also enquired about a potential deal, after failing to land Olivier Giroud or Krzysztof Piatek but it appears that won't be happening. 
"Ighalo is in China, pre-season training with Shanghai," Sheth added.
"There are doubts about when the Chinese Super League start and the club will be looking to offset some of his wages through a loan move to example, Manchester United.”
DON'T MISS
Cristiano Ronaldo wanted ‘dream’ Liverpool transfer before Man Utd snatched deal
Man Utd scouts drool over Maxi Gomez after Ole Gunnar Solskjaer transfer assignment
Man Utd could complete shock transfer deal for striker because of coronavirus