Nadler to miss conclusion of Senate trial to be with wife 
 Rep. Jerrold Nadler Jerrold (Jerry) Lewis NadlerLive coverage: Senators query impeachment managers, Trump defense Nadler floats John Kelly as potential impeachment witness Fox's Wallace: Nadler would pay to have his Clinton impeachment remarks 'expunged from the Earth' MORE (D-N.Y.), one of the House impeachment managers, announced Friday that he would be missing the likely conclusion of the Senate impeachment trial to be home with his wife who is undergoing treatment for pancreatic cancer.

Nadler, who chairs the House Judiciary Committee, is one of seven House Democrats chosen by Speaker Nancy Pelosi Nancy PelosiTrump insists he isn't worried about impeachment: 'This is a happy period' On The Money: Economy grows 2.3 percent in 2019, slowest year under Trump | How coronavirus could impact the US economy | Farm bankruptcies jump | Pelosi not ready to back UK trade deal Chris Christie says he could 'definitely' see Trump targeting GOP senators who vote for additional witnesses MORE (D-Calif.) to present the articles of impeachment against President Trump Donald John TrumpThe Memo: Trump tries to steal Democrats' thunder in Iowa Democrats make closing arguments to Iowa voters Alexander to vote no on witnesses, bringing trial close to end MORE.

“I am sorry to not be able to stay in Washington for the conclusion of the Senate impeachment trial but I need to be home with my wife at this time,” Nadler tweeted. “We have many decisions to make as a family. I have every faith in my colleagues and hope the Senate will do what is right.”

Last week Nadler announced that he would be missing a day of the impeachment trial on Monday. His wife was diagnosed with cancer in December, after the House Judiciary Committee marked up the two articles of impeachment the Senate is currently assessing.

“I am sorry to miss some of the Senate Impeachment Trial, which is of critical importance to our democracy,” Nadler wrote then. “I plan to return to Washington late Monday and appreciate the support of my colleagues and staff as I take this time to be with my wife and begin the long fight against her cancer.”

The Senate is set to vote on whether to bring in witnesses to the trial as early as Friday. Republicans are growing confident they will be able to block witnesses and move to end the trial, which is widely expected to result in Trump's acquittal.