AHS Issue Coronavirus Memo To Rockyview Schools 
 Parents from The Rocky View School system received a letter from Alberta Health Services outlining the details of the Novel Coronavirus and what precautions you could take and what you can do if you suspect someone has contracted the virus.  The letter also outlines the fact that there are many other illnesses that have similar respiratory symptoms such as influenza and would most likely be the cause of students, or staff respiratory infections.

Yesterday afternoon Dr. Deena Hinshaw, Chief Medical Officer of Health in Alberta spoke at a press conference about the fact that the World Health Organization has declared the Novel Coronavirus outbreak to be a public health emergency of international concern.  Hinshaw stated, "There have been no probable and no confirmed cases in Alberta, at this time the risk to Albertans is still considered to be low.  Today's announcement from the World Health Organization is a significant step, and should not be taken lightly. No immediate changes are being made to the public health measures already in place in Alberta, but we will be working closely with the public health agency of Canada and our partners in other provinces and territories to assess if any additional steps are needed to protect the health and well-being of Albertans."

Hinshaw also stated that the government of Alberta has devised a pandemic plan, and did a whole exercise run through just last year to ensure their readiness.  If an Albertan was confirmed to have the virus AHS would do contact tracing which would require the infected person's close contacts to be monitored for symptoms and if they did manifest the associated person would also be quarantined.

To date, there are only three confirmed cases of the virus in Canada, one in British Columbia and three in Ontario, and all are travel related.  If you have any questions about the Novel Coronavirus or if you feel you might be infected you can call Health Link at 811