Here’s How Facebook, Twitter And TikTok Are Battling Coronavirus Misinformation 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	
 
 
  NurPhoto via Getty Images

 

Topline: Some social media platforms have become a breeding ground for misinformation about the coronavirus, with false conspiracy theories and videos blowing up and finding big audiences. Here’s how these digital platforms are taking action:



 Facebook released a blog post Thursday after the World Health Organization declared the coronavirus a global health emergency, and said its third party fact checkers are flagging false content about the illness.

 Facebook also said it will start taking down conspiracy theories flagged as false by the likes of WHO, while the platform will provide “educational popups” for people who search about the illness on Facebook and Instagram.

 Twitter has introduced a new feature in most of the affected countries (except for China) that presents users with “credible” information from seemingly trustworthy news sources when they begin to type “coronavirus” into the search bar.  

 Google is using its SOS Alerts tool to gather “emergency information” about the coronavirus across its search, maps, in conjunction with the World Health Organization. WHO links appear highlighted when you search ‘coronavirus’. 

 Google, which also owns YouTube, did not detail to Forbes how the video sharing platform would be affected, but a search for ‘coronavirus’ on the platform produces videos from trusted news sources.

 TikTok said in an email that it would “remove deliberate attempts to misrepresent authoritative sources of news.” Several misinformation videos have surfaced on the platform, including claims that China created the disease as a form of population control.

 If you search #coronavirus on TikTok, it encourages users to verify facts using the WHO website and trusted sources, as well as report content that breaches community guidelines.





 
 
  
   A search for the coronavirus hashtag on TikTok encourages users to verify information and report ... [+] anything they suspect might breach community guidelines

  
  IT
 


News peg: Conspiracies seem to be spreading more quickly than the virus itself. The conservative Washington Times quoted a military intelligence officer who claimed the new coronavirus is a bioweapon engineered in a lab in Wuhan—an idea debunked by experts cited by the Washington Post. Others have hypothesized, with no evidence, that the virus was created to distract from Donald Trump’s impeachment trial. And a potentially false claim that drinking a particular sterilizing agent is one of the most harmful strands of misinformation out there, which the Food and Drug Administration has warned consumers against.



 At least 213 people have died from the pneumonia-like virus, while it has overtaken the 2003 SARS outbreak in the number of infections. Some 10,000 people are ill with the new coronavirus, compared with 8,000 people 18 years ago. 

 The virus is concentrated in China after it broke out in the central Hubei province in December and since prompted international governments to evacuate their citizens, advise against travel to China, and restrict travel.





Key background: Misinformation surrounding health emergencies is not new. During the 2014-2016 Ebola outbreak that killed more than 11,000 people mostly across parts of West Africa, rumours and misunderstanding about the nature of the illness fuelled distrust of medical professionals and advice from authorities. The 2015-2016 Zika outbreak, primarily in Brazil and across the Americas, gave rise to conspiracies that the Zika virus was a way for drug firms to profit from selling Zika vaccines. SARS was too early for social media, but then the biggest concern was not misinformation, but a lack of information from the Chinese government, who initially withheld crucial information before switching to a dramatic response. The WHO’s joined up efforts with the biggest social media platforms suggests the organization is seeking to avoid criticism it faced in previous years over how it communicates and declares public health emergencies.

Further reading/related: TikTok Used To Spread Misinformation About The Coronavirus (Dawn Chmielewski)

Should You Get A Face Mask? A Guide To Coronavirus Face Protection (Leah Rosenbaum)

Here’s Every State And Country With A Confirmed Coronavirus Case (Updating) (Lisette Voytko)