NYC Officials Deny Report Of Coronavirus Amid Confusion 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	
 
 
  
   “There are no confirmed or suspected cases in NYC,” the health department said.

  
  Tayfun Coskun/Anadolu Agency via Getty Images
 

Topline: Despite a news report of a potential first case of coronavirus in New York City that temporarily sparked panic and confusion on social media Friday, city health officials vehemently denied the report, saying that there are still no confirmed or suspected cases of the virus in the city.



 The Daily News first reported that eight NYPD precincts in Queens were warned early on Friday morning to be careful over “1 confirmed case” of coronavirus at Elmhurst Hospital.

 But the New York City Department of Health quickly denied the report, saying that there were no confirmed cases anywhere in the city’s five boroughs.

 NYC Health Commissioner Oxiris Barbot tweeted in response, “THIS IS NOT ACCURATE. There are still ZERO confirmed cases of novel coronavirus in NYC.”

 “There are no confirmed or suspected cases in NYC,” NYC Department of Health spokesman Michael Lanza told Forbes.

 “As of now, there have been no suspected cases sent to CDC from NYC for further testing,” confirmed another NYC health department spokesman, Patrick Gallahue. “Thus, no confirmed cases either. Report was wrong,” he told Forbes.

 “There is no coronavirus at Elmhurst Hospital,” added Christopher MIller, spokesman for NYC Health + Hospitals.




Crucial statistics: As of Friday, the deadly coronavirus has now infected nearly 10,000 people and killed at least 213, according to Chinese authorities. Originating in Wuhan, China, the fast-spreading illness has now reached more than 21 different countries. There are a total of five confirmed cases in the U.S., which issued its highest travel alert possible for China on Thursday night—advising Americans to avoid all “non-essential” travel to the country. Numerous airlines have suspended travel as well, and a host of countries including the U.S. have also evacuated citizens from China and placed them under quarantine.


Key background: The World Health Organization (WHO) in a press conference on Thursday said that it is declaring coronavirus an international health emergency. “We don’t know what sort of damage coronavirus could do if it spreads to a country with a weaker health system,” said WHO Director-General Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. “We must act now.”


 



Further reading: Here’s Every State And Country With A Confirmed Coronavirus Case (Updating) (Lisette Voytko)

WHO Declares Coronavirus A Global Health Emergency, Praises China’s ‘Extraordinary Measures’ (Lisette Voytko)

A Perfect Storm: Coronavirus, Major Earnings Reports And An Overvalued Market Could Slam Investors This Week (Sergei Klebnikov)