Tottenham attempt to hijack Man Utd's Odion Ighalo transfer deadline move with late talks 
 Tottenham have held talks over signing Odion Ighalo today as Jose Mourinho remains keen on sealing a last minute deal for a striker. Ighalo is keen to leave Chinese Super League side Shanghai Shenhua due to the coronavirus outbreak.

However Manchester United remain the more likely destination if he is to get a move away.
The CSL season has been delayed due to the virus and a number of players have been looking for moves away from clubs despite the riches on offer.
One of those is Ighalo who has been offered around Premier League clubs and it’s understood Tottenham are among those who have held conversations for the former Watford man.
But they still look like finishing today without a new forward.
Mourinho addressed the issue earlier and admitted he would prefer to land someone who could replace Harry Kane while he recovers from injury.
Transfer news LIVE: Latest news and updates from deadline day

“Would it be better with a striker? I have to answer yes, it would be better with a striker,” he said earlier today.
“Yes, we would need a striker to have a better squad to face the great challenges in front of us in three different competitions.
“I cannot hide. If I say it's easy to play three competitions without a striker, I'm going to be lying. I cannot lie. You know that's important for us
“We want to do things not to resolve the problems of today or tomorrow but things that are also good for the future.
“For example, Steve Bergwijn – I prefer to say Stevie – is the kind of player that is good for now but also good for our future, the direction we want to go.

“But with the difficulties of the market in January, it was really hard to find the striker that is good not just to resolve the problems of today but also the future of the team. So probably we're not going to do it.
“There's nobody to blame and say you could didn't do your job well or you could do better than you did. Not at all.
“It's not the perfect situation but it's where we are. The good things for me are always the feelings, the positive feelings – and we're together on this.

“As a team we have to face the rest of the season the way it is and give everything we can to have the best possible results.”
And Mourinho did tease a potential last minute move, by refusing to rule one out.
“The market is open so anything can happen,” the Portuguese said. “But I am not expecting anything to happen. I am happy.”