Inside Coronavirus-hit hotel where Britain's first victims fell ill with killer bug as hazmat medics rush in 
 DRAMATIC footage shows medical staff in hazmat outfits swooping on the hotel where Britain's first coronavirus victims stayed.

The paramedics in protective suits were filmed entering the Staycity aparthotel in York where two people - believed to be Chinese tourists - fell ill with the killer virus.

The victims were evacuated by the hazmat medics on Wednesday,

As the two medics march inside the £70-a-night city centre hotel a man in a t-shirt and someone holding a phone can be seen without protective gear.

The 220-bedroom hotel has continued to take bookings, sparking fears more could be infected or come into contact with workers exposed to the deadly bug.

Tonight, after the government kept the public in the dark for hours, Staycity aparthotel finally confirmed it was at the centre of the UK's outbreak.

A hotel spokesperson said: "We have now received confirmation that two guests staying in one of our apartments in York have been tested positive for the coronavirus.

"We have been advised by Public Health England that there is minimal ongoing risk of infection to either guests or staff, and as such our York property remains open for business."

Some rooms at the hotel have been sealed off and are being deep-cleaned today - but otherwise it's "business as usual" despite the risk posed.

Tonight some hotel guests were furious they had not been told about the coronavirus.

PhD Student Fris Ilfifi, 30, has been staying since the patients were evacuated on Wednesday, and said: “Two medics went up to his room and tested him.

"When I checked at reception they told me it was just normal flu. Guests were not wearing masks. Everything was carrying on as normal.

“I was scared then and I am scared now. It’s a hell of a lot to trust. I am trying to find somewhere else to stay and get out of here by next week.”

Another hotel guest from the North East blasted: “The hotel have told us nowt. We don’t know what’s going on."

It comes as a rescue flight from Wuhan finally touched down in Britain this lunchtime, carrying 83 Brits who will also now be quarantined.

One of the Brits on board, posted live pictures from inside the plane and wrote: "The infected are coming."

The flight, which contained adults and small children, landed at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire after Brits were rescued from the "ground-zero" epicentre of Wuhan.