Watch China Pharma Stocks Go Through The Roof On Monday 
 Anything related to China healthcare and drugs or drug delivery is likely to be overbought by the ... [+] Chinese whenever Shanghai and Shenzhen stock markets get back to business.

  
  Getty
 

I may be going out on a limb here, but even as the overall China stock market is more likely than not to have a really rough day on Monday, assuming it even opens, WeChat’s version of FinTwit will be all about pharma companies. 

If it has anything to do with coronavirus or a drug store, it will probably do better than the benchmark when the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges open next week.

For sure, the Chinese guys hanging out in quant funds from Boston to New York are reading the financial chatter on social media for clues as to what is going to pop on Monday. 

When Xi Jinping changed the Communist Party rule to abandon term limits due to age, companies with the word “King” in their name saw big price jumps. It made no sense, but for savvy China gamblers, it was a solid bet at the roulette table.


The novel coronavirus from Wuhan is already seeing some China drug-related stocks rise like Bitcoin 2017.


 
 
  
   BOQI International Medical in Shenyang is a $26 million company which doesn't even manufacture ... [+] drugs. They are mainly a drug store chain. And used to be called NF Energy Savings Corp. What that has to do with pharma, we will never know. Such is China...

  
  Bloomberg
 

On January 29, a small cap China drug store company known as BOQI International Medical sent out a press release saying they were going to take actions against the coronavirus. 


Anyone searching for the words “China”, “coronavirus” and other key words like “vaccines” or “actions” or “antidote” found this press release from a company once called NF Energy Savings Corp. (maybe when oil and gas were hot commodities). 

They are not part of the solution to coronavirus. They have no antidote. They are not scientists. The press release just said they have a lot of surgical masks, rubbing alcohol and antiviral drugs stacked on their shelves and in their warehouses so as not to run out.

The stock rose over 51% in intraday trading on Friday alone.

Shanghai Pharmaceuticals in Hong Kong is down over 10% in the last 12 months, but on Friday, it settled 4.16% higher.

China Pharma Holdings, a penny stock that trades on the NYSE at just $0.46 per share, was up over 4% on Friday, too.

Not all of China’s drug makers were lit up on Friday.

WuXi Biologics said this week it is working on neutralizing antibodies for the novel coronavirus and hope to have something ready in four to five months. But the Wuxi, China based biotech company saw its stock gain just half a percent on Friday in Hong Kong. Looks more like a normal day for WuXi.

Well known pharma companies like Harbin Pharmaceutical Group have not yet opened for trading. Harbin Pharma closed 2.27% higher on January 23, just before the Lunar New Year break.


 
 
  
   China healthcare-related stocks, or anything in the pharma space, is where the local retail ... [+] investors will be heading on Monday. Foreign investors should not bet the farm on unknown China drug makers. (Photo by PETER PARKS/AFP via Getty Images)

  
  AFP via Getty Images
 

The coronavirus has infected 9,776 people of which 213 have died from respiratory complications caused by the pneumonia-like viral infection. Mostly all of them were in Hubei province where Wuhan is based. And all but one were elderly so far.

Many countries are closing their border with China and banning air travel.

The disease is spreading at a rate of roughly 1,500 new cases daily in China. At that rate, China should end the weekend with around 13,000 cases and close to 300 deaths. 

Markets in China are expected to open lower on Monday mainly in response to the sell off of mainland China equities by foreign holders over the Lunar New Year break. They will do even worse if this weekend sees an abnormal rate of new cases in China and abroad, or a shocking rise in the death toll as a percentage of reported cases.

China’s casino stock market, where retail investors dominate the scene, will prove highly volatile, regardless. For every 40% gainer in an unknown China drug-related stock, there will probably be a 40% downer in the same space. 

For the WeChat obsessed, hunt for stocks with the word Corona or Drugs or Virus in them. It might be a lucky seven.