Reacting To Coronavirus: The First ‘Viral Virus’ Of The Social Media Era 
 Passengers arriving on a China Southern Airlines flight are screened for coronavirus at Jomo ... [+] Kenyatta international airport in Nairobi, Kenya.

  
  ASSOCIATED PRESS
 

Let’s all pray this new strain of the coronavirus (CoV) dissipates without causing additional death and illness. But if your institution has a strong presence in East Asia – or you have employees, consultants, vendors or suppliers traveling anywhere in the world that’s been exposed to CoV – prayer is not enough. 

Risk managers the world over are grappling with how to respond to the first formidable “viral virus” of the social media era, a task made more daunting by the January 30 revelation that the first case of human-to-human transmission surfaced in the U.S., causing the World Health Organization (WHO) to declare a “global emergency.” Public health officials confront a sobering task, urging calm and safety precautions without raising hysteria. The Boston Globe reported on January 31 that CoV has already sadly fueled anti-Chinese bigotry around the world.

CoV at this point (week four) appears to be less lethal than the SARS epidemic of two decades ago but seems to spread more easily. In China alone, the new virus has now infected more people than SARS sickened in 2002-03.


Global information and intelligence analyst Leigh Fatzinger, the Founder and CEO of Turbine Labs, has been assessing the way the coronavirus epidemic has been covered since the inception of the crisis and how markets have reacted worldwide, especially given some of the misperceptions that have taken root. Turbine Labs’ AI-intelligence platform issued a January 30 analysis to examine the impact of media narrative on economic and market sentiment. It shows:



 While the coverage through the first three weeks of January increased steadily, it did not appear to correlate with financial market movements.

 That dynamic changed on January 21; coverage spiked as the first case was reported in Washington State, and as millions of Chinese prepared to travel for the Lunar New Year. Asian markets saw a seesaw of losses and gains as investors weighed in on the virus’ impact; U.S. markets followed, closing lower. 

 During these initial media spikes, the narrative was primarily focused on the themes of "fear,” “concern,” and “anxiety.”

 Global stocks then fell again on January 23 as cases of the virus were confirmed in five countries and as the Chinese government moved to quarantine three cities with a combined population of some 18-25 million. 

 The narrative then focused on keywords such as “lockdowns,” “outbreak spreading,” and “containment.”

 Coverage expanded again on January 27, with outlets focusing on flights from Canada to China, as well as additional cases being reported in the U.S. The narrative turned more dismal and urgent with highly impactful coverage, such as a Reuters article titled “Stocks crumble as China virus toll mounts, safe havens lose luster.”

 On January 29 and 30, global exchanges were again under pressure based on British Airways suspending all flights to China, followed by other international airlines. In addition, the World Health Organization again shifted the narrative, issuing an emergency decree and calling it a “global health emergency.”

 Later on January 30, The Economist accelerated the narrative, stating that the coronavirus “is likely to become a pandemic.” 





“With a few exceptions, markets have generally counterbalanced the increasingly urgent narrative offered by news outlets with positive economic and equities news,” Fatzinger told me on January 30, the day Turbine Labs released its study. 

“But markets are also making comparisons to the SARS virus outbreak in 2003. The difference today is the breadth and speed at which stories travel, as well as the impact that social media virality and algorithms have in highlighting and amplifying dramatic content. 

“Indeed, coronavirus is the first major viral outbreak of the modern social media era,” he concludes.

Organizations, especially corporations, also need to understand the up-then-down fear and misinformation that’s ricocheting around the world on CoV. 

Don’t assume that people will educate themselves about the precautions that should be taken or understand which risks are peripheral – and which risks are truly dangerous. Many people are looking to their employers and trusted third parties for guidance, since government information is often mistrusted.

All this reinforces the data recently unveiled in the 2020 Edelman Trust Barometer, which shows that trust in what governments do and say around the world continues to erode. Only 30 percent of the people around the world trusts their governments – a devastating reality given what is at stake in the coronavirus epidemic.

So, what should institutions be doing to communicate their actions and ease fears in such a heated and erratic environment? Every organization is different, but your initiatives should revolve around the following tenets:

Safety first, unacceptable risk last. You need to assume the worst – and you can’t afford to take undue chances with someone’s health. If that means suspending certain vulnerable operations and removing your people from an unacceptably precarious situation, then that’s what it means. Better to absorb a short-term financial dent than risk a calamitous accident down the road. 

Get good information – and get it in the hands of your people. These links contain insights and recommendations from credible epidemiologists and other scientists. Make sure your organization’s health care professionals sign off on whatever information you’re going to share – and get it to the rest of your people and loved ones right away.

Keep it simple and clear. This is no time to be subtle or nuanced in your communications. Make sure whatever actions you take and personal health care recommendations you share are communicated in direct, no-nonsense, simple-to-grasp language – preferably on a special “What We’re Doing to Keep You Safe from the Coronavirus” webpage. Let the epidemiologists deliver in-depth analysis through your links. Keep your actions easy to read – and easy for your people to take to heart. 

Transparency above all. Make sure that your primary forms of communications – website, intranet, whatever – all have an easy-to-navigate route to your actions and personal health-and-safety recommendations. And make sure that the media covering you – national, local, industry, social – knows exactly what you’re saying and doing. They probably won’t file stories, but they need to know that you’ve been doing the best you can. The same holds true for key stakeholders and decision-makers. Make sure they have easily digestible information at their fingertips.

Engage your third parties. Reach out to your grassroots and grass-tops ambassadors and champions and have them issue email, blog, et al., about your efforts, especially if a Greek chorus has suddenly appeared online, which means you need to redouble your online monitoring.

Let’s hope that The Economist is wrong and that the CoV crisis won’t metastasize into a deadly pandemic. 

But remember Fatzinger’s admonition about the dangers posed by misinformation. We can’t afford to mishandle the first viral virus of the social media era. Better to err on the side of caution and give your people the information they need – in a hurry.