Snacking Portfolio Expansion Continues To Fuel Hershey’s Growth 
 CHICAGO, IL - JULY 16: Hershey's chocolate bars are shown on July 16, 2014 in Chicago, Illinois. ... [+] Hershey Co., the No.1 candy producer in the U.S., is raising the price of its chocolate by 8 percent due to the rising cost of cocoa. This is the company's fist price increase in three years. (Photo Illustration by Scott Olson/Getty Images)

  
  2014 Getty Images
 

The increasingly diversified portfolio with high-growth snacking brands has helped Hershey grow its profit over the past year, although premium jerky sector remains a drag.

The U.S. chocolate maker recently reported growth in both Q4 and full-year 2019 revenues.

Its consolidated net sales in Q4 increased by 4% year-over-year to reach $2.07 billion, while its full-year net sales grew 2.5% annually to nearly $8 billion.

The core U.S. confections business was the main contributor to Hershey’s profit increase with brands, such as Reese’s and KitKat growing 6% and 2.3% year-over-year in Q4 sales, respectively.

Hershey’s candy, mint and gum retail sales increased by 2.6% annually, resulting in a category share gain of approximately 10 basis points in 2019.

CEO Michele Buck noted during an earnings call, while Easter has helped to drive the category, “we also finished the year strong with retail sales growth of 2.8% and a category share gain of approximately 20 basis points in the fourth quarter.”


Hershey expects the momentum of its core confections business growth to continue as several new products will be on shelves soon.

“In addition to our KitKat Duos innovation, we are excited to announce the expansion of our THiNs platform in 2020,” Buck said. “York THiNS and Reese’s White THiNS will launch in March and will be available in both the take-home and peg formats.” 

Key learning lessons for future snacking MA

As the war on sugar marches on amid increasing health concerns, Hershey and other large confectioners are adding more snack brands to lure wellness-oriented shoppers through MA.


Hershey, in particular, has made several prominent deals over the past few years to include brands such as SkinnyPop, Pirate Booty, and most recently, ONE Brands which manufactures a line of low-sugar and high protein bars. 

These brands have largely fueled the growth of Hershey with the retail sales of SkinnyPop delivering a 13% annual increase in Q4, resulting in a popcorn category share gain of 170 basis points. 

Pirate Booty’s performance also accelerated as Hershey successfully recaptured its distribution loss in early 2019 and promoted the brand through a partnership with Disney.

Buck said: “Our most recent acquisition, ONE Brands, grew 35% in traditional measured channels, with additional strength in non-measured channels, such as e-commerce.”

However, the recent slowdown of the premium meat snacks category has dragged the performance of Krave, a jerky brand Hershey acquired from serial entrepreneur Jonathan Sebastiani in 2015.

Meat snacks remain a growing category in the U.S., but their volume has been mostly driven by mainstream and value brands, Buck explained, noting Hershey will take the learning lesson to its future MA strategy. 

“If we’re going into a newer category or segment within snacking, Krave, in particular, was an acquisition that did not meet either of those relative to adequate scale nor adequate gross margin,” she said.

“I think that’s the single biggest learning was that piece of what fits our business model and staying true to that.”

Coronavirus’ impact on business

Buck noted Hershey’s International business has made significant progress over the years by focusing on branded, high-margin products, streamlining operating model and rightsizing investments.

“Since we began this journey at the beginning of 2017, we have increased our segment income by $125 million over the past three years, while continuing to grow our organic constant currency net sales,” she said.

Hershey’s international and other segment sales in Q4 increased by 5.8% year-over-year to reach $255.4 million.

Revenues from India, in particular, have grown 16% and 4.9% year-over-year in Q4 and full-year 2019, respectively. Hershey’s Kisses launch in India remains on track and the company continues to see the country as a strategic growth market for its overall business, Buck noted.

While China posted 9.2% annual sales growth in Q4, the coronavirus outbreak has caused concerns over Hershey’s business in the country. 

Buck said Hershey is carefully tracking the situation, and is not anticipating a big impact on its business in China.

“We are a predominantly North American-based company, so not as big an impact as we may see from some others,” She said. “We have not built in nor anticipate something significant there, but we’ll keep a close eye on that.”