Health officials order coronavirus quarantine for Americans evacuated from Wuhan 
 Nearly 200 Americans who were evacuated from Wuhan, China have been quarantined coronavirus fears. (Picture: CNN/Fox)US health officials have ordered a two-week coronavirus quarantine for the nearly 200 Americans evacuated from Wuhan, China.

The group of 195 evacuees arrived at the March Air Reserve Base in Southern California on Wednesday and were staying under a three-day voluntary quarantine, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Health officials initially said the evacuees would not be placed under a blanket quarantine after some agreed to stay at the base longer than 72 hours.

However, on Thursday, on of the evacuees tried to leave the base and was ordered to stay in quarantine for a 14-day period ‘or until otherwise cleared,’ according to a statement by Riverside County Public Health.

This is the first time the CDC has ordered a quarantine in nearly 50 years. The last time was during the smallpox epidemic in the 1960s.

VIDEO


Delta Airlines, United Airlines and American Airlines have suspended flights from the US to mainland China. (Picture: AP)All 195 of the evacuees were flown to the US to ensure that they were not infected with coronavirus, which began in Wuhan, China. The disease has sickened more than 9,800 in China and killed more than 200.

On Friday, US airlines began suspending flights between America and mainland China.

Two arrested after SUV breaches security checkpoints at Donald Trump's Mar-a-lago estateDelta Airlines, United Airlines and American airlines all announced they would suspend flights to China amid concerns over the rapidly spreading virus.

American Airlines said it was suspending all flights immediately through March 17. Both American and United will continue flights to Hong Kong.

United and Delta said they would start suspending service on February 6. Delta said it will resume flights on March 28.

Delta, which does not have flights to Hong Kong, said it would suspend service through April 30. It’s last flight from the US to mainland China is scheduled to depart on Monday.