Man Utd turn attention to Odion Ighalo in last-minute scramble to seal signing 
 Manchester United were left scrambling to sign a striker before the transfer deadline.

United had several options on the table as Ole Gunnar Solskjaer was left in a desperate battle to bolster his squad before the window slammed shut.

Top of Solskjaer's list was former Bournemouth striker Josh King, with whom he worked when he was in charge of United's reserves.

United and Bournemouth were locked in talks all day, but were still unable to agree a deal with just hours to go before the 11pm transfer deadline.

While United wanted a loan deal for their former striker King, Bournemouth were keen on a permanent deal for the 28-year-old - currently injured - to get him off their books.

But the Cherries wanted £27million for Norway international King, who has just 18 months left on his contract and only three goals this season, a figure United were simply not prepared to pay.

With the move for King on the brink of collapse, United turned their attention to former Watford striker Odion Ighalo, currently playing in China with Shanghai Shenhua.

United held two days of talks with the Chinese Super League club over a loan deal for the 30-year-old forward until the end of the season.

With the start of the Chinese Super League suspended because of the coronavirus, United had hoped to be able to agree a short-term deal to sign Nigeria international Ighalo.

But with Ighalo still in China, having failed to fly to Europe on Thursday as expected, time was running out for the Reds to strike a deal for him.

Other names on United's radar in their desperate search for a front man to fill the void left by Marcus Rashford, out for three months with a double stress fracture, included Norwich's Teemu Pukki.

But Norwich were not interested in letting their top scorer leave, with Southampton also rejecting an outline enquiry from United for their leading scorer, Danny Ings.

Leicester flop Islam Slimani, now at Monaco, is another name who has been mentioned.

United faced the prospect of ending the window with Anthony Martial and Mason Greenwood as their only fit strikers, following the enforced loss of Rashford, top scorer this season with 19 goals.

The failure to replace Romelu Lukaku and Alexis Sanchez, both of whom joined Inter Milan last summer, has come back to bite United, despite having signed Bruno Fernandes from Sporting Lisbon.

Fernandes, signed in a deal that could be worth up to £67.8m and who will make his debut on Saturday against Wolves, is a free-scoring midfielder who scored 15 times in 23 games already this season.

But United were desperate to sign a forward before last night's deadline, with Martial too inconsistent in terms of his scoring and Greenwood, 18, unable to carry the goal burden alone.