What the U.S. Is Doing to Stop the Coronavirus from Spreading 
 The coronavirus is continuing to spread in China and other countries. Getty Images About 9,800 cases of the new coronavirus virus have been confirmed in China, where over 200 people with the infection have died. The CDC plans to expand this screening to all 20 ports of entry where the organization has quarantine stations. On Dec. 31, 2019, the World Health Organization (WHO) learned that an outbreak of pneumonia had been caused by an unknown virus in Wuhan City, China. A week later, Chinese authorities reported that the infection had been linked to a new strain of coronavirus, 2019-nCoV. So far, about 9,800 cases of the new coronavirus virus have been confirmed in China, where over 200 people with the infection have died. About 100 cases of infection have been confirmed in , including in the United States. Health authorities across the United States have been preparing for the potential arrival of the virus in their communities. At a federal level, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has been issuing guidance to healthcare workers, developing a diagnostic test to rapidly detect the virus, and implementing screening procedures at international airports. Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses, which includes the common cold. It also includes more virulent pathogens, including the viruses that caused the global outbreaks of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in 2003 and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) in 2015.

The CDC confirmed the first case of the virus in the United States on Jan. 21, when it that a patient in the state of Washington had been treated for the disease. Since then, additional cases have been confirmed in the states of Arizona, California, and Illinois. According to Dr. William Schaffner, an infectious disease specialist at Vanderbilt University Medical Center, public health authorities play essential roles in managing disease outbreaks. “The roles of local and federal public health officers are first of all to inform everyone, to the best of their ability, of what the progress of this outbreak is and its nature,” Schaffner told Healthline. “I think they have been doing that… very attentively,” he continued. “They’re holding regular press conferences, and they’re trying to keep their websites up to date, and at the state and local level, health authorities have been putting out information.” For example, New York City’s mayor and top health officials hosted a press conference last Friday to assure residents that the risk of infection in the city is currently low. Officials also reported that healthcare workers in the city have received instructions on how to manage suspected cases of infection, when they do occur. On Monday, San Francisco Mayor London Breed similarly assured her constituents that the city has been taking steps to prepare for potential infections: “San Francisco is ready to respond in order to ensure public safety.” According to Schaffner, federal and local health official have been taking steps to educate “all kinds” of doctors on how to identify and manage cases of infection with the virus. “Emergency rooms, internists, family doctors, pediatricians, infectious disease specialists — I believe we all have coronavirus top of the mind, as does public health,” Schaffner said.

In addition to keeping the public informed and educating doctors across the country, health officials have also implemented entry screening procedures at several major airports. The CDC has already implemented entry screening at airports in San Francisco (SFO), New York (JFK), Los Angeles (LAX), Atlanta (ATL), and Chicago (ORD). On Wednesday, it plans to expand this screening to all 20 ports of entry where the organization has quarantine stations. These screening procedures have been focused on passengers who have arrived in the country on direct or connecting flights from Wuhan. Officials have been asking these travelers about potential symptoms of infection, checking their temperature for fever, and forwarding suspected cases of infection onto a health facility for further evaluation. “The question is whether airport screening is enough as a major public health measure to stem the epidemic. For now, it most likely is,” Dr. Robert Glatter, an emergency physician at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City, said in email comments shared with Healthline. This entry screening may help officials identify and treat cases of infection among travelers who have already developed symptoms. Other travelers might be carrying the virus but not yet showing signs of infection. To address such cases, screening officials are sharing information about the virus with travelers, including instructions for how to recognize signs and symptoms of infection and get treatment when needed.

With only six cases of 2019-nCoV confirmed in the United States so far, the risk of contracting this new coronavirus is currently very low. People in the United States are much more likely to get sick with the flu, Schaffner said. “If they need reminding, there’s another virus out there that’s actually causing much more illness. [Influenza] is in every state, it’s creating thousands of hospitalizations, and by the end of the influenza season, it will have caused many deaths,” he told Healthline. To lower the risk of contracting coronavirus, influenza, or other contagious illnesses, emphasizes the importance of avoiding close contact with people who have fever or other symptoms of infection. It’s also important to wash your hands frequently with soap and water or alcohol-based hand rub, including before and after you eat or prepare food, after you have direct contact with people who are sick, and after you handle animals or animal waste. To limit the risk of exposure to the new coronavirus in particular, the CDC has issued a level 3 travel warning advising people to avoid nonessential travel to China. On Thursday, the State Department also issued its highest alert, a level 4 warning, advising U.S. residents to avoid travel to China. People who have recently traveled to China, or spent time with others who have recently traveled there, should contact their doctor right away if they develop signs or symptoms of infection. “If someone has recently [within the past 14 days] traveled to China or been in contact with someone who traveled to China and feels sick with fever, cough, or difficulty breathing,” Glatter said, “they should seek immediate medical attention and inform the healthcare personnel about their travel or exposure history.”