How Philadelphia-Area Universities are Responding to Coronavirus Outbreak 
 The novel coronavirus outbreak that the World Health Organization has labeled a public health emergency is now impacting local universities, which are taking measures to inform and aid students and staff.


The new strain of coronavirus has infected nearly 10,000 people and killed more than 200 across the globe. At least six cases have been confirmed in the United States, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 


The 2019 coronavirus can lead to headache, cough, sore throat,
fever and body aches. In severe cases, the coronavirus may turn into
bronchitis and pneumonia. In these cases, patients may experience a high fever,
coughing with mucus, shortness of breath and chest tightness that worsens when
breathing and coughing. 


	Local

	Breaking news and the stories that matter to your neighborhood.

					
					
	


Below is a list of local universities and how they are addressing the outbreak:


Arcadia University


Arcadia University has cancelled the China-based class for its short-term study abroad “Preview” program, school spokesman Dan Diprinzio said. Students enrolled in the China-based classes have been transferred to Preview classes in Dublin, London, Oman and Paris. Study abroad programs that had connecting flights in China have also been rerouted to other airports. The university has also cancelled or postponed faculty and staff trips to China through March.


The school has a partnership with Jiangsu University in
China in which Chinese students can finish their degrees at Arcadia University’s
Glenside campus, DiPrinzio said. Typically, the students arrive at the Glenside
campus in early July, but the move will now be delayed because Jiangsu
University has had to postpone the start of the new semester in response to the
coronavirus. 


In addition, DiPrinzio said Arcadia is working with “overseas
partners, primarily in Australia and New Zealand, to identify alternative
programs for students that were planning to study in China who may need last
minute options this Spring 2020.”


Drexel University


Drexel University is suspending all travel to China for
students. Students and staff who still want to travel to China will first need
to get approval from their respective dean or department head, and then the
Office of the Provost will have to give its OK, as well.


Rutgers University


Rutgers University is restricting authorized travel to China
for students, faculty and staff. The restrictions apply to teaching, study
abroad programs, conferences, presentations, internships research, recruiting and
athletics. Impacted students are asked to contact the Rutgers Global
International Student  Scholar Services unit at 848-932-7015.


Temple University


Temple University has suspended university-affiliated student
travel to China. The school says there are no confirmed cases of the
coronavirus at any of its campuses in Philadelphia or abroad. People who
traveled to China on or after Dec. 1 of last year and have a fever, cough or
difficulty breathing car reach out to the Student Health Services office at 215-204-7500
or the Employee Health Services office at 215-204-2679.


University of Delaware


A spokesperson for the University of Delaware said the
school does not currently have a study abroad program in China, but officials have
been in contact with students studying in other countries and advised them to
take precautions during travel, including wearing face masks and washing their
hands frequently. 


University of Pennsylvania


The University of Pennsylvania is recommending that people
reschedule, delay or cancel all travel to China through the end of the academic
term, which ends May 12. The university is not mandating that students, staff
and faculty in China leave, but asked that anyone there with questions contact its
Global Support Services. The Penn Wharton China Center in Beijing will follow Chinese
government recommendations for hours of operation. 


The university has also asked campus schools, centers and
departments to inform students and visitors flying in from China about what to
do if they become sick on campus.


The university plans to make decisions about summer travel
to China at a later date.