Man Utd still looking at other strikers amid Odion Ighalo transfer deadline day talks 
 Manchester United have not limited their options of signing a striker to Odion Ighalo, reports have claimed. The Nigerian is among those being considered for a short-term deal before the transfer window slams shut.

Multiple reports have claimed that Ighalo is closing in on a move to Old Trafford until the end of the season.
Yet according to ESPN, United are also exploring other names and have not shut off alternative avenues.
Ighalo is currently playing for Shanghai Shenhua but is keen on a return to Europe.
The Chinese Super League has currently been suspended due to the outbreak of the coronavirus.
JUST IN: Man Utd switch attention to new striker as Josh King transfer deadline day move collapses

That’s seen Ighalo and many others of the league’s players try and seal a move before the deadline.
Ighalo is a name that has been loosely linked with a move to Old Trafford in recent weeks.
Tottenham are understood to have launchd a late move for the striker but their approach did not get off the ground.
United however, appear to have made the breakthrough and are encouraged they can wrap things up.
DON'T MISS
Cristiano Ronaldo wanted ‘dream’ Liverpool transfer before Man Utd snatched deal
Man Utd scouts drool over Maxi Gomez after Ole Gunnar Solskjaer transfer assignment
Man Utd could complete shock transfer deal for striker because of coronavirus

A key part of their criteria when searching for a striker was that they’d played in the Premier League.
Ighalo has done just that having helped fire Watford to promotion from the Championship in 2015.
He then went onto score 15 Premier League goals the following season, before sealing a move to the Far East in 2017.
Other names on United’s agenda include Islam Slimani.

The Leicester man is currently on loan at Monaco and has been the subject of interest from other Premier League clubs.
Aston Villa and Tottenham did enquire about a potential deal, but both turned attentions elsewhere.
Joshua King was the subject of a £20m bid from United, but the approach was rebuffed by Bournemouth.
United are understood to have given up on bringing King back to Old Trafford, with Bournemouth reportedly demanding £50m.