'Animal abuser cut his aunt's dog in half with chainsaw' 
 Jonathan Bulluck is accused of killing his aunt’s dog and cutting it in half with a chainsaw. (Picture: Wilson County Sheriff’s Office/ Facebook)A man killed his aunt’s dog then cut it in half with a chainsaw, police said.

Investigators said Jonathan Bulluck, 23, stole his aunt’s dog, battered it until it was unconcious, stabbed it to death then cut in in half with a chainsaw in Wilson County, North Carolina on January 24.

Wilson County Sheriff Calvin Woodard told The Wilson Times: ‘This is the worst, isolated case of animal cruelty I can recall.’

‘The suffering that dog endured… it was something out of a horror movie.’

Bulluck’s aunt, who has not been named, told police her nephew spent the night at her house and told her that her dog, named Tigger, jumped on a two-year-old child at the home.


Bulluck is being held at the Wilson County jail on $20,000 bond. (Picture: Google Maps)After Bullock told his aunt about the incident, she checked on the child, who reportedly suffered no injuries.

The next morning, the woman woke up and discovered Tigger was no longer on his leash.

Health officials order coronavirus quarantine for 200 Americans evacuated from WuhanShe called her nephew after she recalled him saying he ‘would’ve killed the dog,’ according to sheriff department chief of staff Wanda Samuel.

Bulluck’s aunt then called police after she was unable to reach her nephew.

The dog’s body was later found in a shallow grave down a dirt road by deputies and family members.

Investigators determined that the dog had been beaten, killed then sawed in half to fit in the shallow grave. Deputies have only recovered half of the body, according to the Wilson Times.

Two arrested after SUV breaches security checkpoints at Donald Trump's Mar-a-lago estateWoodard said: ‘This pet had the right to be home, not stolen, suffering and killed.’

‘The offender showed total disregard to his family and their love for Tigger. I hope that peace and comfort will one day be obtained by the family who had to endure this tragic loss.

Bulluck was charged with felony animal cruelty and felony larceny of a dog.

He was booked at the Wilson County Detention Center and was given a $20,000 secured bond. It is unclear when he is due back in court.