Odion Ighalo's last Instagram post shows why Man Utd boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer wants him 
 Odion Ighalo is set to join Manchester United on a six-month loan in a dramatic deadline day deal. The Nigerian striker is currently playing for Chinese Super League side Shanghai Shenhua.

But with the CSL postponed due to the coronavirus several players are looking for a way out of the country.
And Ighalo looks to have secured the biggest move with United agreeing a six-month loan deal with the option to make the move permanent.
The former Watford ace will provide back up and competition for the likes of Anthony Martial, Mason Greenwood and Marcus Rashford when he recovers from injury.
Oghalo remains in Shanghai at the moment but is expected to fly to the UK over the weekend.
The deal will be confirmed tonight before the deadline and will mark the end to dour transfer window.
United did finally manage to sign Bruno Fernandes in a deal from Sporting Lisbon but their striker search has led them to a quick fix option despite Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s philosophy of looking to youth.
What shirt number could Odion Ighalo wear at Manchester United?

But Ighalo’s last Instagram post shows what kind of person he is.
He posted a trio of pictures with the caption: “Be the type of person who leaves a mark not a scar.”
Solskjaer has been keen to bring in leaders and players with the right personality, and Ighalo’s comment suggest he is up to the task and wants to leave an impression.
Solskjaer also explained his desperation for a new striker earlier this week after the Carabao Cup semi-final exit to rivals Manchester City.
He said: “I think everyone who is watching us can see what we’re trying to do.
“We’ll get there, we’ll add players.
READ MORE
Odion Ighalo agrees personal terms over six month loan deal
Odion Ighalo transfer breakdown ahead of six-month loan deal
How much Odion Ighalo will earn in wages at Manchester United

“The culture here… character, attitude. Today the quality wasn’t great, sometimes that happens.
“We need more goalscorers, we need more goals, that’s a definite. We need someone who will break their nose to score a goal, or their toe.
“It doesn’t have to be the nice ones. We know that.
“We’re challenging them, I need to challenge them more, because we can’t just score nice goals.”
And earlier today he hinted a last minute deal was not out of the question.

He said: “I'm not sure, I don’t expect any more business to be done.
“I don’t think anything is going to happen
“Sometimes I say something here and something else happens, sometimes I say I'm happy with a player and he gets a different message, so I don't want to help or make speculations grow more and more today.
“I expect nothing to happen, but that doesn’t mean it can’t happen.”