50 Cent wears mask amid coronavirus outbreak 
 50 Cent is taking any chances with his health and is wearing a mask amid the coronavirus outbreak – while warning fans he won’t be taking any photos.

The first UK case of the deadly coronavirus that has killed over 200 people was confirmed today, but it originated in China and has spread to other countries including the US and France.

It seems 50 Cent, real name Curtis Jackson, is implementing strict rules when it comes to public interaction and revealed his strategy to his Twitter followers.

In a video, the In Da Club rapper is seen wearing a mask across his face while watching a news report and says: ‘F**k that, don’t come nowhere near me. No pictures.’

He captioned the clip: ‘No pictures for you, and no coronavirus for me.’

While most of his followers found his measures to protect his health amusing, others agreed with him, including one who said: ‘My mood until the coronavirus is gone.’

Another agreed: ‘Prevention is better than cure.’

‘Just get some Dettol,’ one advised, while another weighed in: ‘That mask is too small for your face… I think you’ll need a large.’

Fans were particularly amused that 50 wore a pair of plastic gloves with his large diamond ring and watch worn on top.

Protection doesn’t mean style has to be compromised, apparently.

It’s been a busy week for 50, who received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame yesterday.

The rapper was supported by Dr Dre and Eminem, the latter of whom delivered a heartfelt speech bringing 50 to tears.

Em said: ‘One of the first things I noticed about 50 was his presence because it just kind of felt like, he’s gonna be a star… It just seemed like he was the whole package.

‘Dre and me knew that if something worked on us, it was gonna work on the rest of the world and I’m glad we trusted our instincts…

‘I just wanna say man, I’m here today because this is not only a business partner to me, it’s one of the best friends I’ve ever known in the world.’

MORE: 50 Cent throws shade at Evanescence over Grammy snub at Hollywood Walk of Fame

MORE: 50 Cent promises to change his life after Kobe Bryant’s death: ‘No more arguing’