2 animations show how quickly the Wuhan coronavirus has spread across the world 
 A mysterious coronavirus has killed 213 people in China and infected more than 9,800 in just one month. Cases have been reported in at least 22 countries outside of China.Animated charts show how the virus has spread so far.Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.The outbreak started small: On December 31, Chinese authorities reported that 41 people in Wuhan, the most populous city in central China, had caught a mysterious, pneumonia-like virus. 



For a time, the outbreak seemed relatively contained. Authorities did not report any new cases for several days.But on January 11, Chinese officials confirmed the first death: a 61-year-old man who was a regular shopper at a local seafood market where the outbreak might have originated.The wet market — which has since been shuttered — sold live and dead animals. Putting all these different species in close proximity can raise the risk that a disease will hop from animals to people. At first, officials thought the novel coronavirus could only spread to people from animals. But authorities have since determined that humans can transmit it to one other — even before they show any symptoms.In the last two weeks, confirmed cases of the Wuhan virus have risen dramatically — more than 9,800 cases were recorded as of January 31. It has spread to at least 22 other countries.



At least 213 people have died.An animation shows how sharp the spike in cases has been:Here's how much it has spread since the start of the outbreak:What to know about the novel coronavirusThe coronavirus family is a large group of viruses that typically affect the respiratory tract. They can lead to illnesses like the common cold, pneumonia, and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), a fatal illness that hasn't been reported anywhere since 2004. An outbreak of SARS that started in China in November 2002 resulted in 8,000 cases and 774 deaths. 



After just one month, the total number of cases of the new coronavirus has vastly outstripped the SARS total.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Medical staff transfer patients to Jin Yintan hospital on January 17, 2020 in Wuhan, China.
 
 
 
 Getty Images
 
 
Amplifying the challenges of containing the outbreak is the Chinese Lunar New Year celebration, which lasts until February 8. The holiday leads hundreds of millions of people to travel; it's one of the world's largest annual human migrations."This couldn't have happened at a worse time for Wuhan," Adrian Hyzler, the chief medical officer at Healix International, which offers risk-management solutions for global travelers, told Business Insider before the holiday began. "Travel spreads this kind of virus like wildfire."On January 23, Wuhan officials announced that they were quarantining the city by shutting down all transportation. China has since imposed travel restrictions on around 45 million people in the Hubei province, where Wuhan is located.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Medical workers in protective gear talk with a woman suspected of being ill with a coronavirus at a community health station in Wuhan on January 27, 2020.
 
 
 
 Chinatopix/AP
 
 
Outside of China, the other countries with documented coronavirus cases are: Australia, Cambodia, Canada, Finland, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Nepal, the Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, the UK, the US, and Vietnam.



The US has confirmed six cases, including one case in which a patient in Chicago transmitted the virus to her spouse.Chinese health officials say the incubation period for the virus ranges from 1 to 14 days, during which time carriers can be infectious, even if they don't show any symptoms. The World Health Organization has declared the coronavirus outbreak a global health emergency — a distinction the agency reserves for the most serious and sudden outbreaks that cross international borders."We don't know what sort of damage this virus could do if it were spread in a country with a weaker health system," WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Thursday while announcing the declaration. "We must act now to help countries prepare for that possibility."



On Friday, the US declared the outbreak a public-health emergency as well. Citizens who visited China within the last two weeks could face up to 14 days of quarantine. Read more about the Wuhan coronavirus:We're in an 'age of epidemics,' a scientist says. More diseases like the coronavirus will jump from animals to people.The Wuhan coronavirus has killed more than 200 people and infected at least 9,700. Here's everything we know about the outbreak.



The Wuhan coronavirus seems to have a low fatality rate, and most patients make full recoveries. Experts reveal why it's causing panic anyway.The outbreaks of both the Wuhan coronavirus and SARS likely started in Chinese wet markets. Photos show what the markets look like.