Seventh Germany coronavirus case confirmed 
 The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany has risen to seven after authorities in Bavaria said a sixth employee of automotive parts supplier Webasto tested positive for the virus.
Earlier on Friday, the ministry confirmed that the child of an infected Webasto employee had fallen ill with the virus, which originated in China and has since spread to more than 20 countries around the world.
Webasto, a car parts supplier based in Stockdorf in the district of Starnberg, has 13,400 employees and 12 sites in China.
Its biggest factory is in Wuhan, the city where the coronavirus first emerged in December.
The new coronavirus has killed more than 200 people in China, where the number of confirmed cases is approaching 10,000.
Webasto's Stockdorf location was visited last week by an infected staff member from China who only began experiencing symptoms during her flight back home.
Both father and child were placed in isolation at a hospital, authorities said. The case marks the first time in Germany that a relative of an infected person has fallen ill.
Authorities assume that the entire family is infected, although its other members still have to undergo follow-up testing.
All those with confirmed infections in Germany are in stable health, the ministry said.
A German Air Force plane was on its way to China on Friday to evacuate German citizens from the worst-hit province of Hubei and deliver aid for authorities battling to contain the coronavirus outbreak, Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said.
This includes 10,000 protective suits that were requested by China, Maas added.
The Luftwaffe aircraft will then bring approximately 130 people back to Germany: around 90 German citizens and about 40 relatives with other nationalities. They are being repatriated voluntarily.
They are expected to arrive in Frankfurt on Saturday afternoon and then be transferred to military barracks on the edge of the south-western town of Germersheim, where they will be quarantined for about 14 days.
Among the German citizens being repatriated, no one has been confirmed or is suspected of having contracted the deadly new strain of coronavirus.
The biotech company CureVac in the south-western German city of Tuebingen on Friday announced that it will receive funding of up to 8.3 million dollars from the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations to develop a vaccine against the coronavirus.
The German Centre for Infection Research is also working on a vaccine.