Donald Trump declares coronavirus public health emergency 
 Donald Trump’s administrations declared coronavirus a public health emergency on Friday. On the right, American’s are seen wearing masks in San Gabriel, California. (Picture: AP)Donald Trump’s administration declared the coronavirus a public health emergency in the US.

Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, who is the chairman of Trump’s coronavirus task force, made the announcment Friday after the US State Department recommended that Americans not travel to China.

The Trump administration said it will deny travelers who pose a threat of transmitting the disease from entering the country and quarantine US citizens returning from Hubei province in China, which is the epicenter of the outbreak.

Azar said some will be institutionally quarantined while a larger portion will be allowed to leave the airport and ‘self quarantine’ in their homes.’

He added that the new measures are ‘prudent, targeted and temporary.’


Ken Cuccinelli, acting director of US Citizenship and Immigration Services, speaks as US Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar (Righ) looks on during a briefing with members of the president’s Coronavirus Task Force in Washington on Friday. (Picture: Getty Images)Ken Cuccinelli, the Acting Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security’ said all flights from China will enter through seven airports starting Sunday at 5pm.

Those airports were identified as John F Kennedy in New York, Atlanta, Chicago, Honolulu airport, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Seattle.

'Animal abuser cut his aunt's dog in half with chainsaw'Cuccinelli said ‘funneling’ travelers through specific airports will allow health officials to ‘focus the expertise of medical professionals who will be doing the (health) screening’ at airports.

Despite the updates, Azar said the risk coronavirus poses to American’s is still ‘low’ and people should not view the travel restrictions as ‘extreme.’

The announcement came after the health officials ordered a two-week coronavirus quarantine for 195 Americans who were evacuated from Wuhan, China this week.



On Wednesday, the evacuees arrived at the March Air Reserve Base in Southern California and were initially staying under a three-day voluntary quarantine, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

But on Thursday, an evacuee tried to leave the base and was ordered to stay in quarantine for 14 days ‘or until otherwise cleared.’

Major US airlines also announced on Friday they were suspended flights to mainland China, where coronavirus has killed more than 200 and sickened over 9,800.

Delta Airlines, United Airlines and American Airlines all said they were suspending flights to mainland China, although both American and United Airlines said they will continue service to Hong Kong.