How Facebook and Twitter could make the spread of the coronavirus worse and if you lose your Super Bowl bet, you could still win when you file your taxes 
 Eroding trust in public institutions and the rapid spread of misinformation will make health officials’ jobs more difficult. 



Here’s what’s driving the cost of what could turn out to be the most expensive Super Bowl ever. 



Kanye West tickets were going for $20 and a Maroon 5 and Dan + Shay show was $50. 



Americans could bet nearly $7 billion on the Chief-49ers duel. 



San Francisco’s punishing run game will grind up time of possession, keeping the ball out of Pat Mahomes’ hands, and its stifling defense will apply pressure he has rarely seen this season, according to one data analytics expert. 



‘My financial adviser assures me that if I live within my current budget I’ll still have over $1 million in savings at age 100.’ 



United, Delta and American Airlines are waiving some cancellation fees; some cruise lines are canceling trips. 



Millennials, research has shown, have fewer responsibilities than their older counterparts. 



There is one silver lining: SARS had a fatality rate of 9.5% compared to 2.2% for the coronavirus thus far. 



The unemployment rose in 2019 in a few key states critical to President Trump’s reelection, but joblessness fell in most of the country as the U.S. finished the year with the lowest level of layoffs in 50 years. 



The lowest unemployment rate in 50 years still isn’t leading to a big increase in wages and benefits for American workers. 



Fed Vice Chairman Richard Clarida said Friday he is not concerned about the recent inversion in the U.S. yield curve. 



President Donald Trump's impeachment trial on Friday appeared on track for a speedy conclusion, following an announcement by Sen. Lisa Murkowski that she would vote against including new witnesses and documents in the proceedings. 



CNBC’s Jim Cramer says is a sentiment shift for oil stocks is not fleeting. He compares the situation to the upending of consumer habits and regulations that changed the tobacco companies forever. 



It is going to get worse before it gets better for the stock market, says prominent technical analyst Ralph Acampora.