"Millions Could Die" - Bill Gates Warned In 2018 That The World Needs To Prepare For Pandemics Like War 
 Should a deadly pandemic comparable to the 1918 influenza outbreak reach the US in the relatively near future, the US government would be powerless to stop it. And in all likelihood, hundreds of thousands - if not, millions - of Americans will die.

That was the message Microsoft founder Bill Gates sent to the world before the Massachusetts Medical Society in April 2018.

Specifically, Gates said the U.S. government is falling short in preparing the nation and the world for the "significant probability of a large and lethal modern-day pandemic occurring in our lifetimes."

Gates discussed his efforts to convince the Trump administration to set aside more funding for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and to prioritize the creation of a national response plan that would govern how resources are deployed during a pandemic or biological weapons attack.

Gates said he believed “the world needs to prepare for pandemics in the same serious way it prepares for war.” He added,

That was not the first time the billionaire had warned the world.

At the 2017 Munich Security Conference, Gates asked world leaders to “imagine that somewhere in the world a new weapon exists or could emerge that is capable of killing millions of people, bringing economies to a standstill, and casting nations into chaos. If it were a military weapon, the response would be to do everything possible to develop countermeasures,” he said at the NEJM event, adding that a “sense of urgency is lacking” when it comes to biologic threats.

This should concern everyone said Gates, “because history has taught us there will be another deadly global pandemic.

Furthermore, as SHTFplan.com's Mac Slavo notes, last October, Gates was involved in Event 201 when a then-imaginary and deadly virus spread around the globe killing 65 million people.

The fictional coronavirus at the center of the Event 201 simulation — a collaboration between the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, the World Economic Forum, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation — was called CAPS, and it started with pigs in Brazil before spreading to farmers, not unlike how 2019-nCoV reportedly began with animals before spreading to people. In the simulation, CAPS infected people all across the globe within six months, and by the 18-month mark, it had killed 65 million people and triggered a global financial crisis. –Futurism

The ruling classes were unable to stop it too and with the WHO finally admitting the coronavirus is a global pandemic, the slippery slope towards that simulation's results are accelerating.

As Mac Slavo so poignantly concludes, Gates - like many others - is relying on the ruling class (our masters) to prepare and keep us safe. Gates said “world leaders” need to invest in approaches such as antiviral drugs and antibody therapies that can be stockpiled or rapidly manufactured to the spread of these future diseases. We think you should prepare on your own outside of what the rulers are doing.  If we have learned anything from studying history, it’s that the ruling class cares only about the expansion of their own wealth and power and not the people they are enslaving.

While Gates's sense of urgency at the time was admirable - and perhaps prophetic given the current status of the spread of the Wuhan coronavirus, other experts on the likelihood of a global pandemic emerging in the relatively near future make Gates look like a Walt Disney-level optimist.

We warned at the time that "if you haven't already, now would probably be as good a time as any to invest in some surgical masks." Sadly, now it is too late and the world is 'out' of masks.