Man Utd transfer target Odion Ighalo due in UK tomorrow despite coronavirus complications 
 Odion Ighalo is due in England tomorrow to complete his move to Manchester United, reports have claimed. The striker has sounded out personal terms over a six-month switch from Shanghai Shenhua.

It’s a deal that has materialised in bizarre fashion on deadline day, with United frantically searching the market for a striker.
Ighalo now looks like the man to move to Old Trafford and he will bring valuable physical quality to the United frontline.
According to The Mirror, Ighalo will arrive in England tomorrow to seal a deal.
That’s despite the coronavirus complications, which do have an impact on his plans to travel.
JUST IN: Man Utd agree Odion Ighalo transfer in principal as Ole Gunnar Solskjaer eyes late deal

Ighalo plays in the Chinese Super League, where the start of the season has been delayed due to the outbreak of the coronavirus.
He is still expected to be able to travel to the UK though, amid tight travel regulations in the Far East.
Personal terms have been agreed with United after an agreement in principle was reached with around three hours to go until the 11pm deadline.
Now United are expected to file the deal sheet and relevant paperwork, which will allow them to finalise proceedings when Ighalo arrives.
DON'T MISS
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer discussed two names today in Man Utd transfer meeting at Carrington
Man Utd prepare final last minute transfer bid for Josh King after Odion Ighalo problem
Man Utd have three alternative options to Josh King after fresh Bournemouth transfer twist


Former Cardiff manager Neil Warnock was in the Sky Sports News studio when the news of a deal broke.
He claims that the forward is not the right player for the club as a move edges closer.
"I tried to sign Ighalo when I was at Cardiff,” Warnock told SSN.
“His salary was over six figures a week, £100,000, something like that.

“His agent tells you one thing, then the other.
"Manchester United won't have that problem with the terms. I'm not sure he's the right player for United.
“He's not consistent and isn't the right type of player.
"They want young players. Why didn't they go for Danny Ings? He's someone similar to Marcus Rashford. It's desperation."