Man Utd complete Odion Ighalo transfer as ex-Watford star seals loan move 
 Manchester United have completed the shock signing of Odion Ighalo, with the former Watford striker arriving at Old Trafford on a six-month loan deal.

United worked up until the last minute on transfer deadline day in a desperate attempt to secure the forward on a temporary deal from Shanghai Shenhua.

And, after failing to re-sign former striker Josh King from Bournemouth, United have now managed to bolster their attacking ranks with the arrival of Nigeria international Ighalo.

It is understood the deal to bring Ighalo back to the Premier League will cost United £4million, which includes loan fees and wages.

There is yet to be official confirmation yet and that may take some time due to the time difference with China - but a deal has been agreed after club chiefs agreed personal terms with the striker.

Mirror Sport revealed on Thursday that Ighalo was booked on a flight to England from Shanghai - only for the flight to be cancelled because of the coronavirus.

Ighalo remained in China and all the negotiations were done from afar but such was United's determination to get a striker in that an agreement was reached on Friday.

The deal looked dead in the water as United chased other options but Ighalo remained on the table with the 30-year-old keen to come back to the Premier League.

Nigeria international Ighalo, 30, is currently at Chinese Super League club Shanghai Shenhua and has enjoyed a successful time in the Far East.

But the Super League has been delayed because of the coronavirus - and that has led to several players trying to secure moves back to European clubs.

Ighalo claimed last year he turned down an approach from Barcelona as he has done well in the Far East and did have an impressive spell at Watford.

Ighalo left Watford in 2017 in a £20m move when several top clubs looked at him but joined Changchun Yatai where he scored 36 goals before moving to Shanghai Shenhua.

Other names on United's radar in their desperate search for a front man to fill the void left by Marcus Rashford, out for three months with a double stress fracture, included Norwich's Teemu Pukki.

But Norwich were not interested in letting their top scorer leave, with Southampton also rejecting an outline enquiry from United for their leading scorer, Danny Ings.

Leicester flop Islam Slimani, now at Monaco, is another name who has been mentioned.

United faced the prospect of ending the window with Anthony Martial and Mason Greenwood as their only fit strikers, following the enforced loss of Rashford, top scorer this season with 19 goals.

The failure to replace Romelu Lukaku and Alexis Sanchez, both of whom joined Inter Milan last summer, has come back to bite United, despite having signed Bruno Fernandes from Sporting Lisbon.

United were desperate to sign a forward before Friday night's deadline, with Martial too inconsistent in terms of his scoring and Greenwood, 18, unable to carry the goal burden alone.