Witnesses rejected in impeachment trial paving way for Donald Trump's acquittal 
 Senators voted against bringing witnesses and documents into the impeachment trial on Friday (Picture: Getty/Metro.co.uk)The Senate rejected bringing witnesses and documents into Donald Trump’s impeachment trial paving the way for the president’s acquittal.

Senators voted 51-49 to block witnesses and evidentiary documents from the trial on Friday night – a critical blow to Democrats, who needed support from four Republican senators to reach a 51-vote majority.

With no witnesses to give testimony regarding the abuse of power and obstruction of justice charges against the president, The Senate is now set to vote on the two impeachment articles, but senators were still debating the timeline of the trail as of Friday night.

Democrats seemed to anticipate this outcome and preemptively questioned the legitimacy of a Trump acquittal after a potential Republican swing votes, Senator Lamar Alexander and Senator Lisa Murkowski, said they will oppose calling witnesses to the impeachment trial.

On Friday morning, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said: ‘If my Republican colleagues refuse to consider witnesses and documents in this trial, the president’s acquittal will be meaningless…There will be a permanent asterisk next to the acquittal of President Trump.’




Republican Senators Lamar Alexander (left) and Lisa Murkowski (right) were potential swing votes who stated last minute that they would not vote for witnesses. (Picture: AP/Getty Images)Going into Friday’s vote, Republicans seemed assured of their victory, despite being caught off guard by allegations made by former national security adviser John Bolton days earlier.

Bolton claimed that Trump told him in August that he was withholding the $391 million in US military aid to Ukraine until Ukrainian President Volodomyr Zelensky agreed to open investigations into his political rival, former vice president Joe Biden and his son Hunter. Trump’s dealings with Ukraine was the issue at the heart of the impeachment trial.

Donald Trump declares coronavirus public health emergencyThe explosive allegations were made in a manuscript of Bolton’s unpublished memoir, which was partially leaked to The New York Times. The White House has since tried to block the book’s publication, claiming it contains ‘top secret’ classified information that endangers the country’s national security.

On Friday, The New York Times published another bombshell claim from Bolton’s unpublished manuscript, which claimed Trump directed the former national security adviser to help his personal lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, with the pressure campaign to obtain damaging information against Democrats from Ukraine officials.


Former national security adviser John Bolton alleged in a book draft that US President Donald Trump wanted to freeze Ukrainian military aid until Kiev investigated his political rivals (Picture: Getty Images)
Bolton claimed that Trump directed him to assist his personal lawyer and former NYC mayor, Rudy Giuliani, in a pressure campaign to acquire damaging information against Democrats from Ukraine.Trump responded to the claims in a statement, saying: ‘I never instructed John Bolton to set up a meeting for Rudy Giuliani, one of the greatest corruption fighters in America and by far the greatest mayor in the history of NYC, to meet with President Zelensky. That meeting never happened.’

Giuliani also denied that the conversation took place, calling the claim ‘categorically untrue.’

'Animal abuser cut his aunt's dog in half with chainsaw'Bolton was seen as a key potential witness in the impeachment trial and Democrats spent much of the days leading up to the vote arguing for their inclusion of his and other witness testimony.

The president’s defense argued that the articles of impeachment were not valid because they did not constitute a crime and Trump was acting within his right at the head of the executive branch.



House managers, who acted as prosecutors in the impeachment trial, called the defense ‘a remarkable lowering of the bar’ and said it would give future presidents the ambiguous power to whatever they wanted.

Trump denied claims for months that his hold on military aid to Ukraine was contingent on the country’s investigation into the Bidens, but numerous witnesses testified otherwise during the House impeachment hearing, which resulted in Trump’s impeachment on December 18.

The hearing heard testimony from former National Security Council senior director for Europe and Russia Fiona Hill, Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Vindman, former top US diplomat to Ukraine Bill Taylor and former Ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch among others.


US Ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch was fired by Trump in May. (Picture: EPA)
Impeachment process (Graphic: Getty/Metro.co.uk)Former Trump Ally and US Ambassador the the EU Gordon Sondland was one witness who gave particularly condemning testimony during the trial when he claimed their was ‘quick pro quo’ – an implied favor for a favor – when Trump asked Zelensky to investigate the Bidens.

Sondland’s testimony came after former Ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch testified about her firing, which was discussed during Trump’s April 21 phone call with Zelensky.

Health officials order coronavirus quarantine for 200 Americans evacuated from WuhanDuring the call, Trump told Zelensky that Yovanovitch was ‘bad news’ and said she was ‘going to go through some things.’ Yovanovitch was fired the following month.

On Wednesday, House Foreign Affairs Chairman Eliot Engel said Jon Bolton ‘strongly implied something was improper’ and suggested he investigate the ambassador’s removal – but Republicans have criticized Engel for the timing of his statement, which came months after his September 19 conversion with Bolton.

However, this witness testimony will never make it to the impeachment trial.

Trump’s likely acquittal may pave the way for his reelection and will likely become a campaign talking point for the president, who has never shied away from self-congratulatory remarks.

Pushing the trial into next week is seen as a small victory for Democrats because Trump will still be wrapped up in the impeachment process on Monday – when the first state, Iowa, will will hold the first presidential nominating contest in 2020.