U.S. declares coronavirus a public health emergency as death toll tops 200 
 The federal government on Friday declared the rapidly growing coronavirus outbreak a public health emergency, effectively blocking foreign nationals who have been to China from entering this country. The rarely used declaration, effective at 5 p.m. Sunday, also imposes a mandatory 14-day quarantine period for any American citizen returning from central China’s Hubei province, the epicenter of the deadly outbreak.The extraordinary measures come as Chinese authorities confirm nearly 9,700 cases and 213 deaths related to the mysterious new virus, which has spread to more than a dozen countries since it was first discovered in December. Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar said Friday’s drastic steps are aimed at mitigating the potential spread of the virus in the U.S., where only six patients have been diagnosed with the virus.“These prudent, targeted and temporary actions will decrease the pressure on public health officials screening incoming travelers, expedite the process of U.S. citizens and permanent residents returning from China and ensure resources are focused on the health and safety of the American people," he told reporters at a news conference.Earlier on Friday, three of the largest U.S. airlines announced they would halt all flights to and from mainland China. American Airlines said the temporary suspension is effective immediately and will continue through at least March 27. Delta said it would suspend flights from Monday through at least April 30 while United plans to cancel flights from Feb. 6 to March 28.The World Health Organization issued its own health emergency declaration Thursday, acknowledging that lower-income countries may need help detecting and containing the pneumonia-like virus. The U.S. Department of State had already urged Americans to stay away from China or return immediately if they’re still there. Azar said those planning to return from any Chinese province other than Hubei would face “proactive entry health screening” and up to 14 days of “monitored, self-quarantine to ensure they have not contracted the virus and do not pose a public health risk.”A group of nearly 200 Americans who were evacuated from Wuhan this week are under a similar, 14-day quarantine at a California military base.Robert Redfield, director of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said the U.S. is “likely” to see additional cases within the next few weeks, but he urged Americans not to panic as officials don’t believe the virus is spreading in any U.S. community.“This is a significant global situation and it continues to evolve, but I want to emphasize again that the risk to the America public is low,” he said.Only one of the six U.S. patients diagnosed with the virus had not been to China. The Chicago resident contracted the illness from his wife after she returned from Wuhan. About 200 other U.S. residents were being tested for the virus on Friday, Redfield said.