California Faces Third Case of Coronavirus, and a New Quarantine 
 [Sign up for our daily newsletter about news from California.]
SAN FRANCISCO — A third confirmed case of coronavirus in California was announced on Friday, raising new questions about the state’s vulnerability in the outbreak on the same day the federal government imposed a 14-day quarantine for the 195 people who arrived on an evacuation flight from Wuhan, China.
The federal government also announced that foreign nationals who have traveled to China will temporarily not be allowed to enter the United States; that restriction does not apply to immediate family of American citizens and permanent residents.
The quarantine in California will keep the group at the March Air Reserve Base in Riverside for 14 days to make sure nobody is infected with the coronavirus, the authorities said. In a sign of the heightened precautions against contagion, the flight crew on the aircraft that evacuated the group from China wore hazmat suits.


Though the disease has killed more than 200 people worldwide, the outbreak remains limited in the United States. So far, seven people are known to be infected with the virus in the country, including three people in California.


The three confirmed cases were in Los Angeles, Orange and Santa Clara Counties.
In Los Angeles County, the infected person reported to authorities that he was feeling unwell as he was traveling back to Wuhan, China, the center of the outbreak. The patients in Orange County and Santa Clara County had also traveled to Wuhan.
The Santa Clara County case was announced by Dr. Sara Cody, the county’s health officer on Friday.
“This is the first case in Santa Clara and in the Bay Area,” she said. “We are currently reaching out to any one he may have come into contact with.”
Dr. Cody said that after returning from China on Jan. 24 and becoming ill, the patient was “careful to isolate at home.” She said he had only left his home to seek treatment for his illness. 
“We are actually quite lucky in this case.” Dr. Cody said. “I think the contact list will be short.”


Sonia Angell, director of the California Department of Public Health, said in a recorded video message this week that the health risk to the general public in California was low. “But we still consider this a serious public health concern,” Dr. Angell said. Around 40 people in California have been tested for the disease, according to the department.
But understanding the specific risks to the state center on questions that have not yet been answered: How transmissible is the disease? And how long is its incubation period? Estimates of the incubation period range from two days to two weeks.


Airlines are canceling flights between the U.S. and China.
Christine Kreuder Johnson, an infectious disease expert at the University of California, Davis, says California is more vulnerable than some other places in the United States because of the large number of people in the state traveling back and forth to China.
“It does put us right on that front line,” she said.
Many flights from China entered the state before the disease was recognized and screenings at the San Francisco, Los Angeles and New York airports were put into place on Jan 17.
It is an open question, Dr. Johnson said, whether any passengers on the earlier flights were infected and transmitted the disease to others.
On Friday, Delta Air Lines, United Airlines and American Airlines said they were suspending all service to mainland China.


The current guidance from the C.D.C. is for travelers from China to watch their health for 14 days after arriving.
Dr. Johnson said she was optimistic based on the previous outbreaks like SARS that the coronavirus can be extinguished.
“There is good hope for it to be controlled,” she said.


Almost 200 people are under quarantine at the military base.
Among the 195 people quarantined on the military base in Southern California were diplomats, infants, a football player and a theme-park designer.
Their flight was the only one organized by the State Department leaving Wuhan.
“It’s not Club Med, but we’re fortunate to be here,” said Matthew McCoy, the theme-park designer who lives in Shanghai but was in Wuhan working on a mall he is refashioning. “I try to stay busy with my work, social media and my hotel workout regimen.”
The evacuees have their temperatures taken regularly and their noses swabbed. They have been advised against shaking hands or hugging.


Colleges are taking precautions, and some events have been called off.
While the spread of the disease has been limited in California, it has already had a social impact.
College students from mainland China as well as Americans in California of East Asian descent are reporting suspicious glances on public transport and rising xenophobia.
At the University of California, Berkeley, which has a large Chinese student population, officials apologized after the university health center posted an image that included “xenophobia” among a list of “common reactions” to the coronavirus. It was condemned as giving legitimacy to racism.
Dr. Stacie San Miguel, the director of medical services at the University of California, San Diego’s student health center, said students and others had been flocking to physicians for checkups.
“Especially the people who have been to China and had a runny nose, they’re not sure — is this something or not something? — so there has been some anxiety,” Dr. San Miguel said.
In Northern California, multiple cities canceled their Lunar New Year celebrations, including Stockton and Elk Grove.


Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs contributed reporting from New York, and Miriam Jordan from Los Angeles.