CDC Issues 1st Quarantine In 50 Years Amid International Spread Of Novel Coronavirus 
 ATLANTA, Ga. (CW69 News at 10) — According to a Centers For Disease Control and Prevention statement, all 195 U.S. citizens who returned to the country from Wuhan, China on January 29, 2020, have been quarantined at March Air Reserve Base in Riverside, California.

Health officials said the last quarantine was in the 1960s for small pox, and this an effort to prevent the spread of the novel (new) coronavirus.

The CDC reports the virus has caused respiratory illnesses, ranging from mild to severe, with symptoms including fever, coughing and shortness of breath.

The latest quarantine comes after the World Health Organization declared an international public health emergency. The virus has now spread to more than 20 countries, including the U.S., Canada and the United Kingdom.

So far, China’s National Health Commission of the People’s Republic of China is reporting 213 deaths and 9,692 confirmed cases of the new coronavirus as of January 30.

As of January 31, 2020, the CDC reported six positive cases in the U.S., 114 people testing positive and 121 pending cases, for a total of 241 patients under investigation.

Several airlines, including United, American Airlines and Delta, have suspended flights to China as a result of the virus.

In a telephone conference on January 31, 2020, Dr. Nancy Messonnier, the director for the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases said testing negative for the virus does not mean a person does not have it. She explained it could be in an incubation state.

Messonnier and other health experts have advised the public to take every day preventative action to avoid spreading this and other viruses.

They recommend avoiding non-essential travel at this time. However, here’s what they say travelers can do to protect themselves:


Avoid contact with sick people.

Avoid animals (alive or dead), animal markets, and products that come from animals (such as uncooked meat).

Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and water are not available.



If you traveled to China in the last 14 days and feel sick with fever, cough, or difficulty breathing, you should:


Seek medical care right away. Before you go to a doctor’s office or emergency room, call ahead and tell them about your recent travel and your symptoms.

Avoid contact with others.

Not travel while sick.

Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing.

Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and water are not available.