Weinstein has 'no testicles and appears to have a vagina' says sex accuser 
 HARVEY Weinstein has no testicles and 'appears to have a vagina' a rape accuser sensationally claimed in court today.

Jessica Mann made the bombshell allegations as she accused the disgraced film producer of forcing her into oral sex and raping her in 2013.

4

 Weinstein was accused of having no testiclesCredit: Reuters
4

 Jessica Mann alleged in court that Weinstein 'does not have testicles and it appears like he has a vagina'Credit: AFP or licensors
The 34-year-old former actress tearfully opened up to Manhattan Supreme Court jurors at Weinstein’s rape and sex assault trial: “The first time I saw him fully naked, I felt, I thought he was deformed and intersex.

“He has extreme scarring that I didn’t know if maybe he was a burn victim.

"He does not have testicles and it appears like he has a vagina."

Mann claimed she had a strange relationship with the 67-year-old predator because of her sexual inexperience, according to Page Six.

As she admitted to having consensual oral sex with Weinstein when she first saw him naked, she testified: "I was filled with compassion, absolute compassion.

“It seemed his anger came from a place of shame.”

Weinstein first raped Mann in a Midtown hotel room - after a planned breakfast with two others never took place because Weinstein arrived early and booked a hotel room for them.

Mann testified: “He got very mad at me for trying to speak up.

“I was saying to the people [at the counter] ‘We don’t need a room,’ so he pulled me aside in the corner and told me not to embarrass him.”

4

 Harvey Weinstein appeared in Manhattan criminal court on FridayCredit: Reuters
4

 Jessica Mann sobbed in court at Weinstein's sex assault trialCredit: Reuters
When asked about Weinstein's hygiene, she said: "It was very bad. He smelled like s*** — excuse me, sorry, like poop. He just was dirty.”

She recalled he peed on her once and in a separate incident, he said: "Do you like my big fat Jewish d***."

Mann first met Weinstein at a party when she moved to Los Angeles to pursue acting.

She detailed their first encounter when she gave him her phone number and recalled him appearing to be "very normal and very engaging" as she accompanied him to a book store.

Weinstein allegedly told Mann that she needed to "understand film history" if she wanted to pursue acting.

Earlier this week, jurors in a Manhattan court heard that Weinstein demanded a young actress have a threesome with him before saying "that's how Charlize Theron and Salma Hayek got ahead."

HEARTBREAKING
 Kobe Bryant’s wife shares first tribute since crash killed star  daughter 

'OUT OF DIAPERS'
 Mom’s fury after daycare worker scrawls across her toddler’s belly in ink 

WORST IS YET TO COME
 Coronavirus could mutate  become even DEADLIER, leading expert warns 

SICKENING ABUSE
 Pedo raped girlfriend’s twin daughters, 4, and infected them with gonorrhea 

DON’T JUDGE US
 Woman who 'looks 15' says strangers think her boyfriend, 54, is her GRANDPA 







Witness Dawn Dunning told jurors Weinstein asked her to meet him in a hotel suite in New York when she was just 24 years old - but when she declined, he told her she'd need to trade sex for career opportunities.

Before name-dropping Theron and Hayek, Dunning claimed Weinstein shouted: "You'll never make it in this business! This is how the industry works!"


Do you have a story for The US Sun team?

Email us at exclusive@the-sun.com or call 212 416 4552.