Hunt for patient zero as coronavirus Brits face two weeks in quarantine 
 Rescued coronavirus-hit Brits face a two-week wait in quarantine as the quest to find the source of the deadly outbreak continues.

Health officials are urgently trying to chase those who came into contact with two people in York diagnosed with coronavirus in the UK in order to avoid further contagion.

The two coronavirus carriers are members of the same family who had been staying in at the Staycity apartment-hotel in York when they became unwell.

It comes as China has declared over 200 deaths and 9,000 more infected cases.

On Friday 83 Brits evacuated from coronavirus-hit Wuhan arrived at a hospital near Liverpool where they will spend the next 14 days in quarantine.

Only around 150 people were on British charted 'evacuation' flight as a transport ban in the virus-hit city meant some found it 'impossible' to make it on time.

The lucky ones arrived in a convoy of coaches at Arrowe Park Hospital on the Wirral shortly after 7.15pm on Friday.

They were greeted by a team of medical staff in masks hazmats who will closely monitor their health for any symptoms of the respiratory killer illness.

One of those on board the flight was Brit Patrick Graham, who shared a post on his Instagram, writing: "Been awake for 24 hours...off to an isolation centre somewhere in Merseyside for 14 days. Fair to say 2020 has started with a bang!"

Ben Kavanagh, shared several selfie showing him throughout his journey to quarantine.

He told the Irish Mirror: “There are two other Irish lads here and we’ll all be getting off in Britain, getting into quarantine there.”

The 24 year-old, from Kilcullen, Co Kildare said he has been told he will spend up to two weeks in quarantine in an NHS facility, but is hopeful if he does not show any symptoms he might be able to leave after 7-to-10 days.

Ben said: “I always said I’d go home if the circumstances were right and now that there is a quarantine waiting then that’s ideal.

“So I can’t infect anyone if I’m actually infected and obviously the WHO have declared an international health emergency so it’s probably the right time to leave.

“But I was in two minds the entire time [up] until now," he continued.

“My mother lives in Liverpool so I’ll go to her first before I head back to Ireland so that’s the plan."

The evacuation flight from the Chinese city at the centre of the outbreak landed at Brize Norton RAF base in Oxfordshire at around 1.30pm on Friday.

For the next two weeks the 83 will stay at NHS staff accommodation block with access to the internet and games consoles, in fully-furnished rooms, with food and laundry facilities until they get the all-clear from the virus.

Meanwhile, the two people diagnosed with the virus are being treated by Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust in its specialist Airborne High Consequences Infectious Disease Centre (HCID).

Health officials are now desperately trying trace people who have been in contact with the pair and do not know how high that number might be.

Professor Sharon Peacock, director of the National Infection Service at PHE, said: "Public Health England is contacting people who had close contact with the confirmed cases.

"Close contacts will be given health advice about symptoms and emergency contact details to use if they become unwell in the 14 days after contact with the confirmed cases."

The PHE definition of close contact is being within two metres of the infected person for 15 minutes.

The number of coronavirus cases worldwide has now surpassed that of the Sars epidemic.

Other countries, including Australia, South Korea, Singapore and New Zealand, also plan to quarantine evacuees for two weeks to avoid spread of the virus.