Dad filmed desperately pleading with embassy to leave China with wife and baby 
 A petrified father pleaded with a British embassy official to evacuate him and his family from coronavirus-stricken China in an emotional video.

Steffan Atherton, a teacher from Moreton, Wirral, became increasingly frustrated as he begged to be rescued from the Chinese city of Fuzhou.

He finally broke down in tears at the end of the conversation after receiving reassurances that his Peruvian wife would be evacuated with him if there is another evacuation.

Mr Atherton posted a video of his conversation on his YouTube page, which also features a clip showing the deserted streets of Fuzhou, the Liverpool Echo reports.

In his call to the embassy, he asks an official: “Is there any plans for the rest of us to be evacuated?”.

When the official replies "Not so far no," Mr Atherton questions “There’s no plans whatsoever?”

The official says: “Not as far as I’m aware, no.”

Mr Atherton, who posted the video yesterday, then says: “The issue is, we’re 100-plus infected in this area according to the information we’ve received.”

Overnight, the British government evacuated citizens from the city at the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak, Wuhan.

The evacuees are to spend two weeks in quarantine in accommodation at Arrowe Park hospital in Wirral.

In the call, Mr Atherton says he cannot get a flight out of Fuzhou, and also shares his fears about his Peruvian wife who does not have a British passport.

He says: "I’m here with my newborn baby who only just got his passport, his British passport.

"My wife is Peruvian. She doesn’t have a British passport. Will she be allowed to be evacuated with me as and when that happens?"

The official says: “OK, so far up until now those who are family members of British citizens are going to be allowed.”

After the call ends, a relieved Mr Atherton says “thank you” and puts his head in his hands.

In a later video, he rides his moped through the deserted streets of the city, where red flags and loudspeakers announce the quarantine.

The Foreign Office currently advises against all but essential travel to mainland China following the outbreak of coronavirus in Wuhan.

In the advice, published on 28 January 2020, it says: "British people currently in China should make decisions based on their own personal circumstances, bearing in mind that travel may become more difficult in the coming days.

"Commercial options for departing China remain available except in Hubei Province. The Foreign Office is working to finalise arrangements for evacuating British nationals from Hubei."

A Foreign Office spokesperson said that British Nationals in China should follow UK travel advice closely and frequently by checking the following page:  https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/china