How Much Damage Will Coronavirus Do To The Travel Industry? 
 Passengers wearing protective masks ride on board an Airport Express train, operated by MTR Corp., ... [+] in Hong Kong, China, on Thursday, Jan. 30, 2020. The World Health Organization called a meeting of its Emergency Committee Thursday to consider issuing a global alarm as the death toll from the spreading coronavirus rose to 170. Photographer: Ivan Abreu/Bloomberg

  
  © 2020 Bloomberg Finance LP
 

How much damage will the coronavirus do to the $5.29 trillion global travel industry?

No one knows. But the short answer (and hopefully, the short-term one) is a fair amount.

Right now, the situation seems to be spiraling, as the dimensions of the contagion are unclear, and no “bottom” is in sight. 

In two months, the previously unknown virus has reportedly infected 10,000 and killed over 210 people in China. The first US case of person-to-person transmission was just reported, while Russia (which closed its 2600-mile border with China), Britain and Italy have all reported first cases of the disease.


“The coronavirus is scaring people because it is new and much is not known about it. But what we can tell so far is that this is no Ebola. Most people who contract it recover just fine,” writes Katherine Mason, professor of anthropology at Brown University and author of “Infectious Change: Reinventing Chinese Public Health After an Epidemic.” She adds, “The fatality rate appears to be considerably lower than SARS…Most fatalities are among the elderly and those with preexisting conditions.”

Nonetheless, the Trump administration just declared the coronavirus a US public health emergency. President Trump signed an order denying entry to foreign nationals who have traveled to China within the past two weeks, while returning Americans who have been in Wuhan in the last 14 days “will be subject to up to 14 days of mandatory quarantine.” The order includes a quarantine of 195 Americans evacuated from Wuhan, the first mandatory quarantine established by the Center for Disease Control in 50 years.


On January 30, the US State Department issued a bright-red Level 4 China Travel Advisory. “Do not travel to China due to the novel coronavirus first identified in Wuhan, China…Those currently in China should consider departing using commercial means.”


 
 
  
   Medical workers in protective gear transport a patient believed to be a confirmed case of the Wuhan ... [+] coronavirus, also known as 2019-nCoV, at Queen Mary Hospital in Hong Kong, China, on Wednesday, Jan. 29, 2020. Governments tightened international travel and border crossings with China as they ramped up efforts to stop the spread of the disease. Photographer: Justin Chin/Bloomberg

  
  © 2020 Bloomberg Finance LP
 

But departing China got harder just a few hours later, when Delta and American Airlines, later followed by United, announced they were suspending all flights between the U.S. and China. American, which suspended flights immediately through March 23, cited a lack of demand. Delta, however, said flights to China would end on February 3, and return flights to the U.S. February 5, so as not to strand customers. 

Reporter Brian Sumers of Skift wrote, “U.S. airlines had no choice. Their customers and their crew members do not want to go to China. Why should they fly empty planes there?”

A partial list of international carriers that have suspended or cancelled flights to China includes Air India, Air Seoul, Air Tanzania, Cathay Pacific, Egyptair, El Al, Finnair, Lion Air, Royal Air Maroc, SAS, Turkish Airlines, RwandAir VietJet, Kenya Airways and Virgin Atlantic.

It might be harder to find airlines that still fly to China, rather than those that don’t. And expect to hear soon about Chinese tourists and tour groups stranded in the US, as well as the rest of the world. 

For the travel industry, loss of the fast-growing Chinese tourism market, even temporarily, will be painful. Chinese tourists traveled overseas 131 million times in 2017, an increase of 7.0% from the previous year. According to the same study, overseas travel spending by Chinese tourists reached USD $261.1 billion in 2016.

Business travel, both to and from China, may also be critically affected by coronavirus concerns. Chinese citizens increasingly travel to the West for study and business opportunities. For example, at the 2019 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) the second-largest delegation was from China, comprising 12,839 (plus another 965 from Hong Kong) of 175,212 attendees.


 
 
  
   Jason Jiao of Shenzhen, China-based Inmotion Technologies displays one of the company's many ... [+] electric monowheels at the 2020 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, Nevada on January 9, 2020. - The electric, self-balancing unicycle is one of the many visions of future mobility presented at CES 2020. (Photo by Robyn Beck / AFP) (Photo by ROBYN BECK/AFP via Getty Images)

  
  AFP via Getty Images
 

The coronavirus conundrum has unexpected dimensions. For example, China is one of the world’s largest importers of oil. Shutdowns and slowdowns caused by fear of coronavirus may cut demand and thus oil prices. Normally, low fuel prices are good news for airlines, as fuel is one of an airline’s most critical costs. But on January 31, airlines plunged along with oil stocks because customers and destinations are more critical to airlines than fuel.

The $46 billion global cruise industry is also watching the coronavirus outbreak nervously. On January 30, Cruise Lines International Association (CLIA), said in response to the outbreak and the World Health Organization’s declaration of a global health emergency that member cruise lines were “continually assessing and modifying policies and procedures as developments emerge. This includes the modification of itineraries, where needed… as well as health, travel and contact screening where appropriate, for guests and crew who have recently traveled from or through the affected area.”

CLIA said member cruise lines “have suspended crew movements from mainland China and will deny boarding to any individual, whether guest or crew, who has travelled from or through mainland China within the previous 14 days.” 

Hotels and attractions are reacting as well. Shanghai and Hong Kong Disneyland have been closed. Hotel groups with properties in China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan are waiving cancellation fees and along with airlines, even offering refunds.

How serious a problem is coronavirus to the health of the global economy? Fear of the unknown is powerful, and sadly, it seems to be sparking xenophobia and racism.

But while the Chinese government is taking draconian action against its own citizens to limit its spread, preventative recommendations of the US Center for Disease Control focus on everyday actions like washing hands frequently, covering your mouth when you cough, and disinfecting.

A previous pandemic, SARS, took about six months to stop, largely through public health measures like the above precautions, isolation, and bizarrely, a ban on importing civet cats.

Anne W. Rimoin, a professor of epidemiology at the UCLA School of Public Health says the world is better prepared than in 2003. “Since the SARS outbreak, we’ve seen several others. We’ve had MERS, we’ve had the H1N1, that’s swine flu; we’ve had chikungunya, we’ve had Zika, and we’ve had several Ebola outbreaks. So I think that the world has just gotten much better at coordinating response.”


 
 
  
   ADDIS ABABA, ETHIOPIA - JANUARY 31: A passenger takes precautions by wearing a mask following an ... [+] outbreak of the Coronavirus in China at Addis Ababa Bole International Airport on January 31, 2020 in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. The number of those who have died from the Wuhan coronavirus, known as 2019-nCoV, in China climbed to over 213 on Friday and cases have been reported in other countries including the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan, South Korea, India, the United Kingdom, Germany, France and several others. (Photo by Luke Dray/Getty Images)

  
  Getty Images