Man Utd confirm shock signing of ex-Watford striker Ighalo from Shanghai Shenhua 
 MANCHESTER UNITED have agreed the shock signing of Odion Ighalo on loan from Shanghai Shenhua.

The 30-year-old ex-Watford striker will join until the end of season as Ole Gunnar Solskjaer finally got a striker after a late transfer scramble for attacking reinforcements.

2

 Odion Ighalo has completed a shock loan move to Manchester UnitedCredit: Getty Images



United will pay the Chinese side a £3million loan fee and stump up £100k a week in wages - a third of Ighalo's eye-watering £15.5m annual salary.

The boyhood Red Devils fan will fly to Manchester on Saturday to join up with his new team-mates after sealing his Deadline Day dream move, which has no option to make it permanent in June.

As he is not going to fly out of Wuhan, the region hit by the Coronavirus, he will not have to go into a two-week isolation.

A medical was understood to have been taken last night while United, having posted the documentation of his signing, now only have to complete his registration within two days.

Solskjaer was desperate to add another striker to his ranks following the departures of Romelu Lukaku and Alexis Sanchez to Inter Milan last summer and the injury to Marcus Rashford.

And the Nigerian is the man United have turned to after firstly missing out on Erling Haaland to Dortmund and then a whole host of others

Former Newcastle forward Salomon Rondan emerged as a late target along with Danny Ings and Solskjaer’s side are also believed to have had an offer rejected for their old academy ace Josh King by Bournemouth.

Now they will be hoping Ighalo, who scored 39 goals in 99 games for Watford between 2014 and 2017, can help fire them to glory over the coming months.

He left Vicarage Road to join Chinese side Changchun Yatai and spent two years there before switching to Chinese Super League club Shanghai Shenhua.

Ighalo has found the net ten times in 19 matches.



2

 Marcus Rashford came off against Wolves with a back injury - and he is set for an extended spell on the sidelinesCredit: EPA



After a frustrating window, he has now become the third signing in a late final flurry from United.

They forked out £55million for Sporting Lisbon’s attacking midfielder Bruno Fernandes on Thursday, with the 25-year-old in line to make his debut against Wolves on Saturday.

And that was followed by the capture of 20-year-old goalkeeper Nathan Bishop from Southend.

For the latest news on this story keep checking back at Sun Online.

Thesun.co.uk is your go to destination for the best celebrity news, football news, real-life stories, jaw-dropping pictures and must-see video.

Download our fantastic, new and improved free App for the best ever Sun Online experience. For iPhone click here, for Android click here. 

Like us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/thesun and follow us from our main Twitter account at @TheSun.