On The Money: Dow falls 600 points on coronavirus fears as US declares public health emergency | Eurozone economy records worst growth since 2013 | Global digital tax talks to move forward 
 Happy Friday and welcome back to On The Money, where we’re wishing you a happy Super Bowl weekend. I’m Sylvan Lane, and here’s your nightly guide to everything affecting your bills, bank account and bottom line.

See something I missed? Let me know at slane@thehill.com or tweet me @SylvanLane. And if you like your newsletter, you can subscribe to it here: http://bit.ly/1NxxW2N.

Write us with tips, suggestions and news: slane@thehill.com,  njagoda@thehill.com and nelis@thehill.com. Follow us on Twitter: @SylvanLane, @NJagoda and @NivElis.

THE BIG DEAL—Dow falls 600 points on coronavirus fears as US declares public health emergency: Stocks ended a panicked week with steep losses Friday after the Trump administration declared the Wuhan coronavirus a public health emergency and major U.S. airlines suspended flights to China.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 603 points Friday, a 2.1 percent drop, marking its worst day since recession fears shook financial markets in August. The S&P 500 fell 1.8 percent, while the Nasdaq composite sunk 1.6 percent.

Rising anxiety over the rapid spread of the coronavirus, a lethal respiratory illness, has derailed a stock market rally with fears of steep economic costs in China. There are more than 8,000 confirmed cases of the illness in China, claiming 137 lives, and nearly 100 cases in other countries including the U.S.

Eurozone economy records worst growth since 2013: The eurozone — the 19 European countries that use the euro as currency — had a rough 2019, showing its lowest economic growth since 2013.

According to statistics agency Eurostat, the eurozone's economy grew by 1.2 percent in 2019. The last quarter was particularly rough, with the bloc only seeing its economy grow by 0.1 percent, The Associated Press reports.

The stagnant economic numbers could be the result of a laundry list of factors, ranging from the United Kingdom leaving the EU to the U.S.'s prolonged trade war with China. The eurozone was also hurt by the fact that France and Italy, two of its largest economies, contracted by 0.1 percent and 0.3 percent, respectively, in 2019.





Global digital tax talks to move forward: A group of 137 countries and jurisdictions agreed to move ahead with negotiations to address tax challenges of the digital economy, according to a statement released Friday by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).

The countries "affirm their commitment to reach an agreement on a consensus-based solution by the end of 2020," the statement said. The statement followed talks among the countries this week in Paris that were overseen by the OECD.

Recap the week with On The Money: