Coronavirus: B.C. health officials reveal number of tests carried out for virus 
 B.C. has carried out 114 tests for novel coronavirus, provincial health authorities announced Friday, with only one case confirmed positive so far.

It’s not yet clear exactly how many people have been tested, as some patients have been tested more than once, according to the Ministry of Health.

As of Friday morning, the coronavirus has infected nearly 10,000 people worldwide and killed 213 people in China, where the virus started late last year and where the majority of the cases have been reported.

So far, three people have been sickened in Canada — two in Toronto and one in British Columbia, which was announced Tuesday as a man in his 40s, who arrived at Vancouver Airport last week from China.

“We are at a critical phase right now,” said Dr. Bonnie Henry, provincial health officer, on Friday.

“We are now at the point that people who have travelled here (from China) might start showing symptoms.”

Henry was also asked about an apparent lack of information on government websites regarding the disease, especially ahead of Super Bowl Sunday, when thousands of people get together for parties.

She said that people should not be cancelling Super Bowl parties or any kind of celebration.

However, “if you are sick…stay at home, don’t go to the party,” she added.

Henry said the man who was announced Tuesday as B.C.’s first positive case of coronavirus is “doing well.”

“His condition is stable and he is being actively monitored by health officials every day.

“The people around him are not sharing the spaces where he has shown symptoms.”

She said the BCCDC is still testing people every day, for which the turnover time for getting the result is 24 hours.

“Our health lab is stretched, but this is where we excel. The lab is working 24/7,” added Henry.

She said the Ministry of Health will be providing updates on the outbreak every Tuesday and will reveal the number of tests carried out every Friday.

Asked if she has any advice for students and staff at education facilities, particularly schools where people have travelled to and from China, Henry acknowledged the anxiety among young people at the moment.

“We’re working on some messaging for them,” she said.

As for one of the confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany, where it’s understood the virus was transmitted from one person to another before any symptoms showed, Henry said, “we’re paying a lot of attention to that case, as is the WHO.

“It’s not what is common (in terms of passing the virus on) and not what’s driving this outbreak.

“It’s not clear (the Germany patient) was not symptomatic, neither is the level of contact (she had) with other people.”

Talking to the media on Tuesday, Henry refused to divulge what city the B.C. patient lives in.

She would only confirm the man lives in the Vancouver Coastal Health region – which includes Richmond, Vancouver, North Shore and the Sea to Sky area up to Bella Coola – and he had visited Wuhan, China, where the potentially deadly virus originated a couple of weeks ago.

The News asked the B.C. Ministry of Health to further explain why the man’s city of residence is not being given.

We were told by a ministry spokesperson that “in order to maintain the privacy of the patient, we are not releasing their location at this time.”

Whether that means the ministry may, at some point, release his location, or that of any future coronavirus patients, remains to be seen.

The man’s first test for the China-based virus was "presumptive positive" before being confirmed on Thursday after a second test in Winnipeg.

The Chinese government has cut off access to Wuhan and 16 other cities.

Health officials in B.C. said the man, a Canadian resident, arrived via Vancouver Airport last week, but did not show any symptoms until at least 24 hours after his arrival.

Henry said the man does not require hospitalization and is being monitored, in isolation, at his home.

“He went home and took all the necessary precautions, put himself in isolation and called it in,” said Henry.

“He was not symptomatic on the flight, so there is no risk to the people on the flight. The screening measures at the airport are doing what they need to do.

“His family members are being monitored very closely. He is in isolation at home and (has not been outside). We have been in contact with everybody that we need to be.

“This confirms that our testing and procedures are working.”

Henry said it generally seems to be taking four to six days for symptoms to show up, so there “may be people who have travelled here who’re carrying the virus.”

Asked if wearing a face mask would help, Henry said it “will keep my droplets in. It’s not known how effective they are at keeping this virus out. It may be giving people a false sense of security.

“If you have touched an area where droplets have fallen, simply washing your hands thoroughly will (suffice).

“The virus needs to get into your lungs, you can’t get it by touching.”

Henry added that she would be “absolutely surprised” if there were not more cases to come in B.C.

“We have carried out – and continue to carry out – many tests for the virus…this is the first one to show positive,” she said.

Henry also addressed a rumour circulating on Chinese social media platform WeChat and local Chinese language media that a man had visited several Lower Mainland hospitals and shopping centres – including Richmond – complaining of the symptoms, but was turned away each time.

The rumour claimed the same man then flew back to China, where he was apparently confirmed as having the novel coronavirus.

However, Henry said the rumour – which was repeated on Chinese language media by Burnaby councillor James Wang – has been investigated and there’s “no risk to the public.”

“We need to be careful about listening to rumours and third-hand information,” she said.

“(Rumours) can lead to discrimination against people. Rumours are just that, rumours.

“We will tell people immediately if there is a case confirmed. We actually have a low threshold for testing the virus. If someone has been tested positive…you will hear from us straight away.