No cases of coronavirus in Mississippi, health officials say 
 Health officials said Friday that there have been no cases of the coronavirus reported in Mississippi."The risk is low to the general public. To get this virus, you have to be exposed to it," said Dr. Paul Byers, the state's epidemiologist.The Mississippi State Department of Health is working with hospitals and physicians to prepare for the possibility of a possible infection, state Health Department Director Dr. Thomas Dobbs said. “The health care community… needs to be getting prepared because there’s a really significant possibility somewhere in the state, and we don’t know where, so everyone needs to be prepared,” Dobbs said. “We really want to make sure we’re working very diligently to reach every corner of the health care community so the people understand what they need to be doing.”Dobbs said resources are available on the health department’s website for Mississippi residents and health care professionals.Those who could be at risk are those who have recently traveled to China, especially the Wuhan City area, in the past two to 14 days or those who have had close contact with someone who is a confirmed case or a case under investigation. The U.S. declared a public health emergency Friday, the day after the World Health Organization made a similar declaration on an international level.Chicago confirmed its second case of coronavirus, confirming America's first human-to-human transmission of the virus.The Trump Administration said there are no plans to cut travel to and from China. "We're working very closely with China and a lot of other countries, and we think we have it very well under control," President Donald Trump said.The number of cases has surpassed the number of SARS infections worldwide in 2002 and 2003. Symptoms of coronavirus mostly include flu-like illness such as fever, cough, and congestion.

Health officials said Friday that there have been no cases of the coronavirus reported in Mississippi. "The risk is low to the general public. To get this virus, you have to be exposed to it," said Dr. Paul Byers, the state's epidemiologist. The Mississippi State Department of Health is working with hospitals and physicians to prepare for the possibility of a possible infection, state Health Department Director Dr. Thomas Dobbs said. “The health care community… needs to be getting prepared because there’s a really significant possibility somewhere in the state, and we don’t know where, so everyone needs to be prepared,” Dobbs said. “We really want to make sure we’re working very diligently to reach every corner of the health care community so the people understand what they need to be doing.” Dobbs said resources are available on the health department’s website for Mississippi residents and health care professionals. Those who could be at risk are those who have recently traveled to China, especially the Wuhan City area, in the past two to 14 days or those who have had close contact with someone who is a confirmed case or a case under investigation. US declares coronavirus a public health emergency, bans entry of people who could transmit it The U.S. declared a public health emergency Friday, the day after the World Health Organization made a similar declaration on an international level. Chicago confirmed its second case of coronavirus, confirming America's first human-to-human transmission of the virus. The Trump Administration said there are no plans to cut travel to and from China. "We're working very closely with China and a lot of other countries, and we think we have it very well under control," President Donald Trump said. The number of cases has surpassed the number of SARS infections worldwide in 2002 and 2003. Symptoms of coronavirus mostly include flu-like illness such as fever, cough, and congestion.