Coronavirus death toll dramatically escalates claiming 45 more victims in China 
 A further 45 people have lost their lives as the coronavirus spreads across China.

In Hubei province, 6738 cases are still being treated in the hospital.

Among them, there are 956 cases of severe illness and 338 cases of critical illness.

All are receiving treatment in isolation.

News of the virus spread in Hubei come as the UK confirmed there were two official cases in the country.

Both are understood to be in isolation at a Newcastle hospital after travelling through the city of York.

A further 83 Brits are in isolation at Arrowe Park Hospital on the Wirral after being rescued from Wuhan, China.

They were flown home from the city, where the outbreak started, and taken by bus from RAF Brize Norton to the hospital.

Their jet reportedly left Wuhan at 9.45am local time and arrived in the UK at around 1.30pm this afternoon.

The buses ferrying the passengers to Wirral were filmed on the M6 with police and ambulance escorts.

The quarantine facility they have arrived at has furnished rooms, free food, laundry facilities, kitchens, games consoles and toys.

James Convey, one of the passengers, told Sky News: "It was quite a positive atmosphere to be honest, everyone was relieved to get out of China.

"We’re all very relieved to be back in the UK. It was a very tight turnaround. We had about 1.5 hours’ notice to get to Wuhan airport, all the transport was locked down, the roads were closed.

"Amazingly we did get there on time. I think there’s probably a lot of people who didn’t."

We'll be bringing you the very latest updates, pictures and video on this breaking news story.

Please check back regularly for updates on this developing story here at  Mirror.co.uk.

For the latest news and breaking news visit  Mirror.co.uk/news.

Get all the big headlines, pictures, analysis, opinion and video on the stories that matter to you.

Follow us on Twitter @DailyMirror - the official Daily Mirror & Mirror Online Twitter account - real news in real time.

We're also on Facebook/dailymirror - your must-see news, features, videos and pictures throughout the day from the Daily Mirror, Sunday Mirror and Mirror Online.