Asian Stock Futures Climb After U.S. Equity Rally: Markets Wrap 
 (Bloomberg) -- Asian stocks looked set to follow U.S. shares and Treasury yields higher, amid efforts to contain the coronavirus and more signs of improvement in the American economy.

Futures rose in Japan and Australian shares saw modest gains. Hong Kong will reopen after a holiday though flights remain limited from China amid an attempt to stop the deadly virus spreading. The S&P 500 added 1% as technology shares climbed and traders digested positive U.S. consumer confidence and home price data. Apple Inc. rose in after-hours trading after its sales forecast topped estimates. The offshore yuan retained its advance.

Equities are showing signs of stabilizing after a slide that wiped about $1.5 trillion off the value of world stocks since Jan. 20. With earnings continuing to roll in, investors are looking for signs of how the disease is affecting operations in China. More than 4,500 people have been infected in China and at least 100 have died.

“We are seeing economic data points that support this continued recovery,” Susan Schmidt, a fund manager at Aviva Investors, told Bloomberg TV. “The coronavirus might have tamped that down just a bit, but overall management teams are coming back and giving a pretty positive outlook and feeling confident about their businesses.”

Elsewhere, oil rose after suffering from heavy declines in wake of the coronavirus spreading.

Here are some events to watch out for this week:

Wednesday brings reports from GE, Boeing and Facebook; Samsung Electronics, International Paper, Unilever and Shell report on Thursday, followed by South Korean chip maker SK Hynix, Chevron, Caterpillar and Exxon Mobil all on Friday.Federal Reserve policy makers on Wednesday are expected to open 2020 the same way they closed 2019 -- by holding rates steady.Goldman Sachs will hold its first-ever Investor Day on Wednesday.The Bank of England meeting on Thursday is highly anticipated after a series of dovish comments raised speculation policy makers could lower interest rates.The U.S. reports fourth-quarter GDP Thursday.The U.K. is scheduled to leave the European Union Friday.

These are the main moves in markets:

Futures on the S&P 500 were little changed as of 8:04 a.m. in Tokyo. The index rose 1% on Tuesday.Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 added 0.6%.Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.3%.

The yen traded at 109.15 per dollar.The offshore yuan was at 6.9670 per dollar.The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index was little changed.The euro bought $1.1022, little changed.

The yield on 10-year Treasuries rose five basis points to 1.66%.Australia’s 10-year yield advanced four basis points to 0.99%.

West Texas Intermediate crude rose 0.4% to $53.71 a barrel.Gold added 0.1% to $1,569.33 an ounce.

To contact the reporter on this story: Adam Haigh in Sydney at ahaigh1@bloomberg.net

To contact the editors responsible for this story: Christopher Anstey at canstey@bloomberg.net, Cormac Mullen

For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com

Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source.