Parents told to keep students who visited China in last two weeks home from WA schools 
 Authorities are urging Western Australian parents to keep children home from school if they have recently visited China, as four people tested for the deadly coronavirus in the state have had their test results come back negative.

WA Health Minister Roger Cook has asked the parents of children who have returned from China in the past two weeks to keep them home from school.

"We are asking parents of children who have travelled from China or Hong Kong in the last 14 days to keep their kids away from school until that 14 days has expired," he said.

"We believe it's a necessary and appropriate precaution to take in relation to the novel coronavirus."

Mr Cook also said children who have been in contact with a confirmed case of the coronavirus should not attend school, even if they feel well.

New South Wales health authorities have issued the same advice to NSW children.

WA students are not set to return to school for the year until next week.

Authorities had earlier reported they were testing four people who may have been exposed to the virus, but said they had all returned negative results.

Australia's chief medical officer had previously said it was possible at least one person being tested may return a positive result.

Mr Cook said the results were a great relief for everyone involved.

"This is a very good situation, and I'm very pleased that at the moment Western Australia is in the clear when it comes to the novel coronavirus," he said.

Mr Cook said the samples were sent to the east coast to be tested, ahead of a new testing facility opening in Perth next week.

"We are currently setting up a testing lab in Western Australia so we can have those results much quicker," he said.

There are five confirmed cases of the virus in Australia, with four of them in Sydney and one in Victoria.

More than 100 people are now dead worldwide as the virus continues to spread, with more than 4,000 confirmed cases.

There are no further suspected cases of coronavirus in WA at this stage.

Around the country, there are rising concerns about how the virus will impact on tourism, but WA Tourism Minister Paul Papalia said he is not too concerned.

"We don't have a big reliance on Chinese visitors right now," he said.

"In every other state or territory their number one or two source of visitors is China, in Western Australia it's fifth."

However, a rock lobster restaurant north of Perth said local businesses will be hit hard by the coronavirus outbreak.

Lobster Shack general manager Peter House told the ABC his restaurant would normally get about 15,000 visitors a week during Chinese New Year but that figure is likely to halve.