Coronavirus Threat Remains Low In Manitoba 
 Manitoba's Health Minister says the risk of Coronavirus in our province remains low.

To date, there have been more than 4,600 confirmed cases of the virus worldwide with two of those in Canada. There have been 106 deaths across the globe, none of those are in Canada.

"It has been well documented that the virus is on the move, is present now in a number of countries, including here in Canada," stresses Cameron Friesen. "As of last report there have been two confirmed cases in Toronto. I want to reiterate that Coronavirus is not in Manitoba at this time."

According to the Minister, in recent days, two patients in Manitoba, out of an abundance of caution, were tested for Coronavirus. Both tested negative for Coronavirus, but tested positive for the common cold.

"But we must remain vigilant," says Friesen.

He notes paramedics and 911 operators have been directed to ask about a patient's travel history if they are identifying respiratory, fever, cough or flu-like symptoms. Suspected and confirmed cases of Coronavirus are required to be reported to Manitoba's Chief Provincial Public Health Officer.

Those who meet the criteria will be placed in a designated separate waiting room. Appropriate infection prevention and control measures will be put in place while the client receives care including the use of surgical masks. If a case is confirmed by laboratory testing, public health will promptly followup with close contacts to take appropriate precautions and monitor for symptoms.

Global Affairs Canada announced Monday that Canadians should avoid all travel to the Hubei province of China, where Wuhan is located. Individuals with recent travel to Wuhan or contact with a recent traveller who currently has symptoms such as a cough, fever, sore throat, runny nose, headache, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties should contact their health care provider or Health Links.

Common preventive measures include regular hand washing with soap and water or an alcohol-based hand cleanser. It is important to wash your hands after coughing or sneezing, when caring for a sick person, before, during and after food preparation, before eating, after toilet use and when hands are visibly dirty.

Friesen says there are screening measures in place at airports in Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver. But, with no direct flights coming into Winnipeg from China, those same screening measures are not needed here.

Meanwhile, Dr. Brent Roussin, Chief Provincial Public Health Officer says public health is not recommending the general public wear masks.

"There isn't any evidence to suggest that that helps in preventing any of the spread at that level," he says.