US health officials directing $105 million to fight coronavirus outbreak 
 US health officials on Tuesday said they are directing $105 million to fight the deadly coronavirus outbreak, but insisted Americans should not be alarmed.

Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar said that while the flu-like illness is a “very serious public health threat” in China — at the current stage, Americans “should not worry for their own safety.”

“Part of the risk we face is we don’t know everything we need to know about this virus … That does not prevent us from preparing and responding,” Azar told reporters.

The Trump administration previously offered help to Chinese authorities, Azar said, reiterating the proposal.

More than 4,500 people have been infected in the country and 106 have died.

There are five confirmed cases in the US, all people who traveled to the area in China where the outbreak originated.

Experts have suggested that one infected patient could spread the virus to two to three people, but Azar stressed it’s too soon to know, pointing out that one patient with measles could spread it to 12 to 18 others.

Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar speaks at a news conference on Tuesday.AP
It’s also unclear whether the disease can be caught from someone not showing symptoms, Azar said. The incubation period for the illness is anywhere from two to 14 days.

One patient in Germany never had close contact with anyone showing symptoms, authorities there said Tuesday. He may have been infected by a coworker who briefly visited the company from China and didn’t report feeling sick until her flight home.

Three additional cases from the company in Munich were later reported, all connected to the first.

Both the US Centers for Disease Control and the World Health Organization want to send their scientists to China to answer those questions.


As Azar spoke, WHO announced it struck a deal with the stricken-country to send international experts “as soon as possible,” but did not elaborate on when or whether American researchers would be involved.

The CDC is beefing up checks for incoming passengers at 20 airports around the country — including JFK — and two border crossings in El Paso, Texas and San Diego.

Next steps include having state health departments use a CDC test to speed up diagnoses of the virus and to develop a vaccine or treatment.

More than 100 people in the US are being tested across 26 states.

In New York, samples from 10 people have been sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for testing, with seven found negative and three still pending, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Tuesday.

With Post wires