Tasmania Now: Woman being tested for coronavirus at Launceston hospital 
 Here's what you need to know today:

A woman in her 20s is being tested for coronavirus in Launceston, Tasmanian health officials say.

In a statement, the Dr Mark Veitch, Director of Public Health, said the "woman reported feeling unwell after recently traveling from China".

"While coronavirus is not strongly suspected, health authorities are taking a precautionary approach."

The woman, whose name has not been released, is currently admitted to the Launceston General Hospital, Dr Veitch said.

Tasmanian emergency crews take longer than average to respond to structure fires compared to the rest of the country, according to a new report.

The Productivity Commission's Emergency Management report shows it took Tasmanian crews on average 17.6 minutes to arrive at structure fires about 90 per cent of the time during the 2018-19 financial year.

In New South Wales, crews responded to 90 per cent of structure fires within about 14 minutes, while in Victoria it took 10 minutes.

However, the report found when call-taking time was excluded, Tasmanian crews responded better than most in the country, and crews reached 90 per cent of structure fires within 9.5 minutes of being dispatched.

The emergency management report also revealed the number of volunteer firefighters in Tasmania was well below what it was a decade ago, but had increased in recent years.

The Hobart City alderman have agreed to get advice on the potential impact of ember attack and other strategies to reduce the city-wide risk of bushfire.

The motion was moved by Lord Mayor Anna Reynolds following the recent bushfires on the mainland.

The report would provide council advice about how to better predict the potential reach of burning embers into Hobart under different model conditions.

Feedback from the Bureau of Meteorology, Tasmania Fire Service and fire scientists would be incorporated into the report.

Tasmania's court system has the worst rates of backlog in the country, according to new figures from the Productivity Commission over 2018-19.

In the Supreme Courts, almost 30 per cent of criminal cases took more than 12 months to be resolved, while almost 9 per cent of cases were still unresolved after more than two years.

In the Magistrates Courts, more than 15 per cent of caseloads took longer than 12 months to resolve.

Youth offenders also faced the longest wait times in the country with almost 8 per cent of criminal cases and 19 per cent of civil cases in the Children's Courts taking longer than a year to resolve.

According to the report, national benchmarks recommend no case in the Magistrates and Children's Courts should take longer than 12 months to complete, while cases in the Supreme and Federal Courts should take no longer than two years, any longer indicates ineffective management and poor timeliness of court proceedings.

The state forecast for Wednesday is fine apart from showers about the west and far south, clearing during the early afternoon.

A full and updated list of warnings can be found on the Bureau of Meteorology's Tasmanian Warnings summary webpage.

The Tasmanian Fire Service advises a total fire ban is in place for all of Tasmania.