A teacher's videos inside quarantined Wuhan show the streets eerily deserted and lines out the door at the pharmacy 
 An Irish teacher's video blogs from within quarantined Wuhan, China, are giving outsiders a look at what life on lockdown is like.

Chinese officials put Wuhan — the nation's seventh-largest city — on lockdown last week to slow the spread of the Wuhan coronavirus outbreak.

Ben Kavanaugh's first video about life under quarantine was posted by Channel 4 on YouTube on January 26 and shows him venturing out into the deserted city to stock up on provisions at a grocery store.

Before leaving the house, Kavanaugh took precautions by doubling up on face masks and putting on goggles and gloves.

He then met up with a friend, and the two ventured to the grocery store with suitcases so that they could stock up on enough food and household items to last them "weeks."

On the walk to the grocery store, Kavanaugh said Wuhan was a city larger than London but that almost no one was out on the street in the morning. The roads were empty because drivers have been told they would be fined or have their licenses taken away, he said.

At the grocery store, he skipped the meat and produce aisles, likely because the virus has been traced to a food market in Wuhan.

Instead, he stocked up on cookies, cereal, chips, eggs, soda, beer, and bacon.

The lines for the checkout were the longest he'd ever seen, and customers were allowed to do self-checkout only.

On the way back to his apartment, Kavanaugh passed a pharmacy with a line of people out the door — one of the few signs of life in the city.

In his second video for the news outlet, which was posted on January 28, Kavanaugh cooked a meal of pasta and hot dogs and talked about how foreign nationals like himself have been in constant communication with each other and their respective governments.

At one point, he talked about how his American friends in a group chat were discussing their flights out of Wuhan.

Later in the video, Kavanaugh said he was also considering leaving, since the British and Irish governments are looking into evacuating their citizens.

He also said it was his birthday and cracked a joke about treating himself to a beer.

"Also, it's my birthday — what a fun birthday in quarantined Wuhan. It's 9 o'clock in the p.m. so I think after almost a week of quarantine I deserve a birthday beer," Kavanaugh said. "I thought Corona, maybe not given the situation, so I went with a different beer. Not Corona. To good health!"