Boeing, McDonald's, Facebook, Microsoft, Tesla earnings: What to know in markets Wednesday 
 All eyes will be on the earnings deluge expected for Wednesday.

Dow components Boeing (BA) and McDonald’s (MCD) will report before the opening bell, and tech behemoths Facebook (FB), Microsoft (MSFT) and Tesla (TSLA) round things out after the market close.

Industrial giant Boeing has been entangled in a web of drama for about a year after two deadly plane crashes forced the company to ground its flagship 737 Max jet. Wall Street analysts are bracing for another disastrous quarter.

There is still no clear timeline for getting the 737 Max jets back in the air, and the continuous delays have forced Boeing to halt production of the aircraft. Investors will pore through Boeing’s results to assess the negative financial impact from the company’s 737 Max woes.

Analysts polled by Bloomberg expect Boeing to report adjusted earnings of $1.30 per share on $21.74 billion in revenue during the fourth quarter. Boeing lost over $60 billion in market value since the second fatal crash on Mar. 10.

Additionally ahead of the opening bell, McDonald’s will report fourth-quarter results. Same-store sales, a key industry metric, is expected to have risen 4.7% in the U.S. during the quarter. McDonald’s is estimated to have earned $1.96 per share on $5.31 billion in revenue, according to Bloomberg data.

Investors will also be paying close attention to commentary from management regarding the coronavirus. McDonald’s temporarily closed stores in China’s Hubei province Jan. 24 following the outbreak.

McDonald’s fourth-quarter conference call will be the first one featuring new CEO Chris Kempczinski.

After the market close, tech giant Facebook, Microsoft and Tesla will deliver their financial results.

Analysts polled by Bloomberg expect Facebook to report adjusted earnings of $2.83 per share on $20.89 billion in revenue during its fourth quarter. Ad revenue is expected to have remained strong even as regulatory pressures persist for the social media company.

Microsoft’s fiscal second-quarter results will likely reflect continued strength from Azure, server products and productivity applications. Meanwhile, Microsoft’s gaming segment will have lagged amid lower console sales, according to analysts.

Microsoft is expected to report adjusted earnings of $1.32 per share on $35.70 billion in revenue. The Dow component’s shares have been on a strong run over the past 12 months, surging 60%, while the broader index rose 26% in the same time period.

Finally, electric automaker Tesla gears up to report earnings after the market close. Tesla stock has been on a tear after the company reported a surprise profit during its third quarter. Shares have soared 73% over the past three months and have pushed the company’s market cap past $100 billion. After Tesla’s profitable third quarter, consensus calls for $136 million in pretax income for the fourth quarter.

Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect Tesla to report adjusted earnings of $1.74 per share on $7.05 billion in revenue.

Other notable reports scheduled for Wednesday include Anthem (ANTM), AT&T (T), Dow (DOW), and Mastercard (MA) before market open; and Mondelez (MDLZ), PayPal (PYPL) after market close

Heidi Chung is a reporter at Yahoo Finance. Follow her on Twitter: @heidi_chung.

Find live stock market quotes and the latest business and finance news