Overnight Health Care — Presented by Philip Morris International — HHS has no plans to declare emergency over coronavirus | GOP senator calls for travel ban to stop outbreak | Warren releases plan to contain infectious diseases 
 U.S. health officials are not yet ready to declare the coronavirus a public health emergency. A GOP senator, though, wants Trump officials to institute a travel ban from China. Meanwhile, Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth Ann WarrenWarren: Dershowitz presentation 'nonsensical,' 'could not follow it' On The Money: Stocks close with steep losses driven by coronavirus fears | Tax season could bring more refund confusion | Trump's new wins for farmers may not undo trade damage Overnight Energy: Sanders scores highest on green group's voter guide | Trump's latest wins for farmers may not undo trade damage | Amazon employees defy company to speak on climate change MORE has another plan, this time to fight infectious diseases.

We'll start with the latest on the coronavirus...

HHS chief: No plans to declare public health emergency over coronavirus

Top federal health officials have a message for Americans concerned about the Chinese coronavirus: Don't panic.

The Trump administration has no current plans to declare a public health emergency over the Wuhan coronavirus, HHS Secretary Alex Azar told reporters Tuesday.

Azar said that the overall risk to Americans is low, though authorities are monitoring possible cases in nearly 30 states.

"I won't hesitate at all to invoke any authorities I need to, to ensure we're taking all steps to protect the American people, but I'll do it when it's appropriate," Azar said.

Azar noted that there are still only five confirmed cases of the coronavirus in the United States, with no person-to-person transmission. That means that every person with a confirmed case has traveled to Wuhan, China, where the outbreak originated.

"This is potentially a very serious public health threat, but at this time Americans should not worry about their own safety," Azar said.

Still, officials said they expect more cases to be confirmed in the U.S. in the coming days.

What else is happening: Increased airport screenings. There will be screenings at 20 airports, up from the current five, even though there are no more flights coming from Wuhan.

Azar said all options are on the table to protect Americans, including travel restrictions. However, he noted that diseases "are not terribly good at respecting borders."

Sen. Tom Cotton Thomas (Tom) Bryant CottonOvernight Defense: US military jet crashes in Afghanistan | Rocket attack hits US embassy in Baghdad | Bolton bombshell rocks impeachment trial Democrats, Republicans tussle over witnesses as vote approaches GOP senator says idea that Ukraine interfered in US election is 'not a conspiracy theory' MORE (R-Ark.) is calling for the Trump administration to implement a "targeted travel ban" to stop the spread of a coronavirus from China.

In a letter to members of President Trump Donald John TrumpWarren: Dershowitz presentation 'nonsensical,' 'could not follow it' Bolton told Barr he was concerned Trump did favors for autocrats: report Dershowitz: Bolton allegations would not constitute impeachable offense MORE's Cabinet on Tuesday, Cotton said it may be too late for China to contain the virus within its borders, and called for a ban on all commercial flights between the U.S. and China.

In order to blunt the inevitable impact to the U.S. economy, Cotton said officials should develop criteria to allow "critical trade" to continue, like cargo flights and seaboard shipping.

Cotton sent the letter to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo Michael (Mike) Richard PompeoState Department removes NPR reporter from Pompeo trip Overnight Defense: US military jet crashes in Afghanistan | Rocket attack hits US embassy in Baghdad | Bolton bombshell rocks impeachment trial Please stop calling the impeachment proceeding a trial — it's a charade MORE, Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar and acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad WolfChad WolfSenators press DHS over visa approval for Pensacola naval base shooter Trump courts new controversy with travel ban expansion Democrats press Trump administration to stop DNA collection from detained migrants MORE.

Will it happen? U.S. health officials have appeared reluctant to commit to any travel ban, and experts have expressed doubts about a ban's effectiveness at stopping the spread of disease.

Flight cancellations: Meanwhile, United Airlines said it was suspending some flights to mainland China beginning Feb. 1 and lasting through Feb. 8 because of a "significant decline in demand."

Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), a 2020 White House hopeful, vowed on Tuesday to increase funding for public health programs in response to the coronavirus in China.

Warren's plan would fully fund the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and its pandemic prevention and response programs.

She would also increase funding for grants that help state and local health departments prepare for outbreaks and other public health issues.

Her announcement comes as more than 4,500 cases have been confirmed in China, and five people have tested positive for the illness in the U.S. The CDC is also monitoring 73 possible cases.

Experts note that public health funding has been lagging for years, putting the U.S. at risk for an epidemic.

"Diseases like Ebola virus, Zika virus and most recently, coronavirus demonstrate the real threat that outbreaks pose to our health and security," Warren's campaign wrote in her plan.

Twenty Democratic state attorneys general on Tuesday joined a multistate amicus brief in a challenge to abortion restrictions in Missouri.

"Nearly 50 years ago, the courts ruled that women across the country have the right to control their own bodies, but nearly every day since, anti-choice legislators have tried to impose their personal beliefs on the wills of millions of women nationwide," New York Attorney General Letitia James said in a statement.

Flashback: The state's sole remaining abortion provider, Planned Parenthood of St. Louis and its chief medical officer, Dr. Colleen McNicholas, have filed a lawsuit seeking to overturn two laws that restrict abortion in the state: a "reason ban" that prohibits pre-viability abortion if a doctor knows it is "solely because" of a prenatal Down syndrome diagnosis, and various bans based on different gestational ages ranging from eight to 20 weeks

It's the insulin, stupid: How drug pricing's simplest case study became a top issue for 2020 Democrats (Stat News)

Response to nation's 1st coronavirus case draws on lessons from measles outbreak (Kaiser Health News)

An attack ad that claims Democratic Michigan Sen. Gary Peters Gary Charles PetersOn The Trail: Why 2020 is the most important election in our lifetime Hillicon Valley: Biden calls for revoking tech legal shield | DHS chief 'fully expects' Russia to try to interfere in 2020 | Smaller companies testify against Big Tech 'monopoly power' Bipartisan group of senators introduces legislation to boost state cybersecurity leadership MORE supports 'Medicare For All' doesn't hold up (Kaiser Health News)