India awaits China nod for evacuation 
 NEW DELHI: India is awaiting China’s nod for facilitating the evacuation of 250-300 Indians from Wuhan following the coronavirus outbreak, ET has learnt. An Air India Boeing 747, capable of carrying about 420 people, is on standby in Mumbai for the task, said sources. External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday said, “Our embassy is in contact with the Chinese government. We are trying to evacuate people, most of whom are students, from Wuhan city by sending a plane. Efforts are on. I can assure you that the government of India is working on it and very soon some solution will be found.” The embassy in Beijing is in contact with Indian nationals in Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak. The Chinese ambassador to India had cited the World Health Organization (WHO) advisory earlier in the day, advising against evacuation. “WHO does not recommend evacuation of nationals, and called on the international community to remain calm and not overreact,” Sun Weidong tweeted. “WHO is confident in China's epidemic prevention and control ability.” Anyone who’s repatriated will be quarantined for 14 days. Arrangements are being made, the government said. Five people are already under observation at isolation wards in hospitals in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Thrissur in Kerala for suspected exposure. The situation in China is being reviewed regularly by the ministry of health and the cabinet secretariat, the government said. Secretaries of the ministries of health, external affairs, civil aviation, shipping, defence, information and broadcasting as well as the National Disaster Management Authority are participating in the reviews led by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba. Screening of passengers who have travelled to China has been extended to 13 more airports, taking the total to 20. The health ministry is procuring more thermal scanners for faster screening. The shipping ministry has also initiated screening at all major ports. Apart from the National Institute of Virology in Pune, four laboratories of Viral Research and Diagnostics Lab Network at Alapuzha, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Mumbai will test samples. Until Monday, 155 flights and passengers 33,552 had been screened. The samples of 20 passengers have so far been tested by NIV Pune. All were negative. The health ministry has set up a control room and a 24/7 helpline number (011-23978046). This will disseminate information on symptoms and where to get checked in case of flu-like symptoms. The ministry is reviewing preparedness and screening in all states daily through videoconferencing calls with chief and health secretaries. The government has asked the civil aviation ministry to issue instructions to airlines on notifying authorities about anybody reporting illness on all flights to China, besides facilitating inflight announcements and distribution of health cards. Health minister Harsh Vardhan said India will take all precautions. “Last year, we stopped the Ebola virus from entering India,” he said. “Similarly, this year, with all precautionary measures taken, we will stop this new disease from entering the country.”