New Zealanders put in quarantine in China after being taken off Moscow-bound train 
 Chinese authorities check details of New Zealand travellers taken off a train at the near the Russian border.

Three young New Zealand men were taken off a train heading from China to Moscow at the Chinese border and quarantined, after one member of the group was found to have a high temperature and cough.

The incident happened as authorities scramble to limit the spread of a coronavirus that has killed more than 100 people in China.

On Wednesday, a Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade spokesperson said none of the New Zealanders taken off the train were found to have the coronavirus.

"The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and the Embassy in Beijing provided consular assistance to a small group of New Zealanders on Monday night who were subject to medical checks at the Chinese border," the spokesperson said.

READ MORE:

 * Kiwis warned against all travel to China as coronavirus spreads

 * How contagious is the Wuhan coronavirus: Does it spread with no symptoms?

 * How does an outbreak turn into a pandemic?

"None of the party were found to have coronavirus. For privacy reasons no further information will be provided.

"We have no information to suggest that any New Zealanders are being held in quarantine at this time."

One of the group members, aged 18, said he and one of his companions had been taken to a hotel where they were the only non-medical people in the building.

They were told not to leave the hotel ground and advised not to leave their room unless it was important," he said

The third member of their party had been taken to a hospital.

The father of the man who contacted Stuff asked that the travellers not be named for now. He said the three were taken off the train at a place in the northeast of China, near the border with Russia and Mongolia.

As he understood it, everyone on the train was checked for coronavirus. Because one of the New Zealand group was found to have a cough and temperature, the two others in the group were also taken into quarantine.

"One went to hospital and the other two went to the hotel," the father said.

"Apparently the sick chap was whisked off and the other two didn't know where he had gone." Embassy staff had managed to trace him.

He was hoping to speak to his son later on Wednesday to get an update on their situation. Until then he did not want to comment on the condition of the traveller taken to hospital, or on when the group might be allowed to leave.