All resources being utilized to facilitate affected areas people: AJK PM 
 The AJK said it is my mission to provide best treatment facilities to masses throughout the state.

MUZAFFARABAD (APP) – Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) Prime Minister Raja Farooq Haider Khan Tuesday said all available resource were being utilized to provide best available medical care facilities in the calamity hit areas of the state.

He expressed these views while talking to a delegation of World Health Organization (WHO) led by its representative in Pakistan Dr Palitha Gunarathna Mahipala at Muzaffarabad, said a press release received here.

Expressing gratitude to WHO for providing medical assistance in affected areas of Neelum valley, the AJK prime minister said the government would extend all out support to the organization for the establishment of field hospital and shifting of its equipment to the affected areas of the valley.

“Although we have an organization in the state to respond to such natural disasters but even then some natural calamities could not be tackled accordingly despite availability of sufficient resource”, Haider said.

“It is my mission to provide best treatment facilities to masses throughout the state for which I need the cooperation of the international organizations”, he added.

The AJK prime minister told the delegates that the state government was taking tangible steps for the provision of quality health services in the territory and had launched free emergency services in all district headquarters hospitals for this purpose.

He told that the government was fully aware about the risk of Coronavirus. Special wards and screening desks were being established in this regard.

Raja Farooq Haider welcomed WHO’s offer to provide assistance in this regard.

 Dr Palitha Gunarathna Mahipala offered assistance for the calamity hit areas of Neelum, Leepa and Bhedi.

Appreciating the prime minister’s role in the affected areas, he expressed his organization’s interest to setup a mobile unit in rain, snow affected areas of Neelum Leepa and Bhedi.

“WHO would also provide its assistance for the identification of the Coronavirus”, he added.

 The Prime Minister lauded WHO for its global contribution in extending quality health services across the globe and serving the ailing humanity round the clock.

He proposed WHO to expand its work in Azad Kashmir and assured all possible support from the government side.