Australian tourists warned they could be quarantined in China during coronavirus outbreak 
 Australians are being told to reconsider any plans to travel to China, due to concerns about the coronavirus outbreak.

After advising people not to visit Hubei province, where the outbreak started, the Federal Government's Smart Traveller website has now upgraded its warning for the rest of China from normal advice to 'reconsider your need to travel'.

The travel advisory does not apply to Hong Kong or Macao.

Foreign Minister Marise Payne warned Australians should not travel to the epicentre of the outbreak under any circumstances.

"Due to the outbreak of novel coronavirus, we now advise you 'reconsider your need to travel' to China overall and 'do not travel' to Hubei Province," the Smart Traveller advice reads.

"Chinese authorities have restricted travel for parts of the country and may extend these restrictions at short notice.

"Travellers may be quarantined, due to their health condition or previous location."

Smart Traveller warns visitors to take extra safety precautions if they do travel, and to check if they are still covered by their insurer.

Australia's chief medical officer Brendan Murphy said the Government's travel advice was "prudent".

"While we have 4,500 cases in China, a significant proportion are now spread in provinces other than Hubei, which remains the epicentre," Professor Murphy said.

"We feel it's prudent for people to seriously reconsider any travel to China at the moment."

The updated advice mirrors a raft of similar travel advisories from other countries, including the United States and the United Kingdom, which earlier recommended people avoid non-essential travel to any part of China.

There have been more than 4,515 confirmed cases of the virus, including in provinces across China and in 16 countries, including Australia.

The five confirmed Australian cases involve people who contracted the virus in China.

On Tuesday, Professor Murphy said a "large number of people across the country" were being tested every day, the majority of them coming back negative.

Dozens of families in the Chinese-Australian community, including at least 140 children, are trapped inside Wuhan and Hubei province after travelling for Lunar New Year celebrations.

Professor Murphy said any potential evacuation of Australians from Wuhan by the Federal Government would be done safely.

"We would make sure there was no risk to the Australian community in doing so," he said.