Concern, calm over coronavirus on first day at Sydney school 
 Zara Dirani, a kindergarten student, will only attend school briefly on Wednesday for a test. Her mum, Nesrine, said she was "a bit paranoid" about coronavirus.
"The death toll is literally increasing every day, and I don't think they're even accurate," Ms Dirani said. She said her nieces and nephews, who attend the same school, were staying home.
Song Yang said he was following the school's advice and sending his daughter to school, but with precautions: a mask and alcohol disinfectant wipes.
"I think everything is fine, but Hurstville Public School is a little bit special in that there are a lot of Chinese students (that) go overseas for a holiday for Chinese New Year and come back," Mr Yang said.

"The risk could be a little higher than other schools, but if the parents know about it and keep away the students if they have gone to China, after 14 days — that's a good idea."
Mr Yang, who is from China, did not return to the country this year. "Because he has to work!" his daughter exclaimed.
Jie Cao, who visited China a month ago and is feeling fine, with her son Jason.Credit:Louise Kennerley
Another parent, Jie Cao, said she went to China recently but came back at the start of January and was feeling fine.
"We got a message yesterday from school, asking us not to go to school if we just came back from China," Ms Cao said. "I think that makes sense."

She said some of her friends with children at the school had been back to China more recently and kept their children home.
The NSW government changed its advice to parents late on Tuesday.
Bilal Tawil and son Zain Tawil. Mr Tawil is concerned about the level of preparation from education authorities.Credit:Louise Kennerley
Having initially said that it was fine for children who had been to China recently to come to school unless they were feeling unwell or had been in contact with a known coronavirus patient, NSW Education Minister Sarah Mitchell said late in the afternoon that children should stay home for 14 days on returning from China.
"Many in the community have been wanting to see this. I think it is important we are taking this precautionary measure in line with community sentiment," Ms Mitchell said.

Loading
The advice from Australia's chief medical officers is that isolating people returning from China, if they are feeling well and not been in contact with anyone with coronavirus, is unnecessary.
Bilal Tawil, taking his son Zain to start year four, said the school had only sent out a message "late last night".
"We don't really think they're that prepared," Mr Tawil said on Wednesday.

Nick is a journalist for The Sydney Morning Herald.