Medical superintendents of 7 hospitals reshuffled 
 Medical superintendents of 7 hospitals reshuffled

LAHORE: The Department of Specialised Healthcare and Medical Education Punjab has reshuffled medical superintendents (MS) in seven hospitals in the province and posted new heads.
According to a government notification on Tuesday, Dr Saleem Shehzad Cheema has been appointed as MS Services Hospital Lahore, Dr Mohammad Zahid Akhtar has been appointed as MS Mayo Hospital Lahore, Dr Mohammad Shahid Iqbal has been appointed as MS Jinnah Hospital Lahore, Dr Ehtishamul Haq has been appointed as MS Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Dr Mohammad Ramzan Samra has been appointed as MS Sardar Begum Teaching Hospital Sialkot, Dr Athar Iqbal appointed as MS Children Hospital Faisalabad and Dr Furqan Hussain MS Haji Abdul Qayum Teaching Hospital Sahiwal.
LWMC: On the directions of the chief minister, Lahore Waste Management Company (LWMC) saves nearly more than Rs 987 million annually. After LWMC started mechanical sweeping and washing by its own resources, it saved Rs687 million annually. LWMC saves Rs 98.5 million annually in labour contract by rationalising labour strength. It saves Rs 50 million annually from workshop.
Residences: Postgraduate Medical Institute (PGMI) and Amiruddin Medical College Principal Prof Dr Muhammad Alfreed Zafar has constituted a six-member committee to look into the matters regarding residential homes, flats and quarters for the employees at Lahore General Hospital (LGH). Prof Alfreed Zafar the hospital staff deserved more facilities because they could be on duty round the clock for care of patients. He hoped the committee would at least be able to determine proper criteria for residential homes for the hospital employees. The committee is headed by Professor of Ophthalmology Dr Muhammad Moeen. Professor of Physiology Dr Muniza Saeed, Professor of Orthopedic Dr Muhammad Hanif, Professor of Pulmonology Dr Khalid Waheed, Associate Professor Dr Muhammad Irfan Malik and Dr Syed Jaffar Hussain Shah are the members of the committee which would review all the matters regarding the residences and present the report to the PGMI principal.
Steps against coronavirus: Adviser to Chief Minister on Health Hanif Khan Pitafi visited Directorate General of Health Office along with Dr Sataaish, deputy secretary to the CM, to ensure all arrangements about prevention and control of Corona virus. Dr Haroon Jehangir Khan, director general, briefed the advisor about all the preventive measures about Corona virus and about creation of high dependency units in the teaching hospitals, about screening of all passengers travelling from China especially from Wuhan province, establishment of special countres in hospitals and the issuance of advisory to all chief executive officers (CEOs) and medical superintendents (MSs) in Punjab.
Teachers protest
The Muttahida Mahaz Asataza Punjab (MMAP) has announced holding a demonstration outside the office of CEO District Education Authority (DEA) on January 30 to protest against the conditional regularisation of Secondary School Educators (SSEs) and other issues faced by schoolteachers.