Airlines ramping up efforts to contain spread of virus among staff, passengers 
 Airlines are ramping up efforts to contain the risk of transmitting the Wuhan coronavirus, with Taiwan’s China Airlines implementing measures to minimise contact between staff and passengers, and Cathay Pacific ending layovers in mainland China for pilots and cabin crew.
China Airlines will make sweeping changes to its in-flight services to Hong Kong, mainland China and Macau until further notice to limit the spread of the novel virus, the company announced, by reducing non-essential reusables for disposable items.
The precautions are being adopted amid concerns that all travellers infected with the coronavirus may not present immediate symptoms and the transmission of the virus is not well understood either.
Aircraft sections – including tray tables, arm rests and overhead luggage lockers – will also be treated with extra disinfection.
Coronavirus death toll climbs to 106 as confirmed cases near 4,500
Tablecloths and napkins will be swapped with paper towels, hot meals will be suspended and replaced by disposable meal boxes or bags, beverages and disposable headphones will only be served on request, and disposable headrest covers will be used.


In-flight amenities – such as blankets, pillows, towels, magazines and newspapers – will not be provided. All in-flight duty-free sales, except online orders, will be suspended.
The airline said in a statement, its “key considerations [are] to protect the health of passengers and crew members”.
Civil servants ordered to work from home as virus spreads
Tigerair Taiwan, a budget airline subsidiary under China Airlines, said it would halt duty-free sales and stop carrying in-flight publications. Seat-back pockets will only carry a safety card and a sick bag.
China Airlines operates 136 flights to 16 destinations on the mainland a week and 111 services to Hong Kong, while its budget unit serves Macau around 42 times a week.
Cathay Pacific and Cathay Dragon have since last Sunday stopped pilots and cabin crew from staying overnight in mainland China until further notice.

“We will reduce, as much as possible, our overnight layovers at all ports in mainland China until further notice,” a Cathay Pacific Group spokeswoman said.
The airline’s flights to eight destinations and more than a dozen flights in total that operated in the evening moved to early morning departures to reduce the layovers, including a trio of flights each destined for Beijing and Shanghai.
Hong Kong’s flagship carrier Cathay Pacific and its regional wing Cathay Dragon serve 22 airports on the mainland through 850 weekly flights in both directions during peak periods.
The group earlier authorised its cabin crew on all flights and airport staff to wear masks to protect themselves from the virus. Finnair, American Airlines, and United Airlines have also authorised their in-flight staff to wear surgical masks for flights to and from China.
Call to temporarily close mainland borders to prevent epidemic
Emirates recommended its crew to stay in hotels provided for layovers on the mainland, while suggesting them avoid large crowds. The Middle East carrier flies to three mainland destinations, including Beijing and Shanghai, operating approximately 46 flights a week. But, it does not fly to Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak.
Airports across the world are stepping up screening on passengers from China, while many major airlines have offered travellers the options to seek refunds for cancellations or reschedule their bookings to the country.
More from South China Morning Post:Coronavirus: Philippines stops issuing tourist visas on arrival to Chinese nationalsWuhan coronavirus: China will contain ‘demon’ outbreak, Xi Jinping says as death toll mountsChina coronavirus: thousands left Wuhan for Hong Kong, Bangkok, Singapore or Tokyo before lockdownChina coronavirus: Hong Kong health minister admits Hubei entry ban ‘not 100 per cent effective’, ahead of meeting to discuss new measures against contagionFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.