Coronavirus: 21 from Punjab, Haryana kept under observation | Chandigarh News - Times of India 
 CHANDIGARH: Sixteen people in Punjab and five in Haryana with travel history to China have been kept under observation after they showed coronavirus-like symptoms. However, the Punjab health minister on Tuesday said that there is no confirmed case of coronavirus from the state.According to the Haryana health department, while two of them are from Gurugram, others are from Faridabad, Nuh and Panipat. Sources said the Faridabad resident is doing his MBBS from an institute in China’s Hubei province, the epicentre of the virus. Director general of health services Dr S B Kamboj said two of them had shown symptoms of the suspected virus. “They have been quarantined and their families also put under watch. Our district health teams are closely monitoring the health of the other three,” he said. The health department teams have drawn samples of two persons and sent them for testing.Meanwhile, Haryana health minister Anil Vij has expressed satisfaction over preparations to deal with any emergent situation. “We do not want to create panic in the state and have put sufficient measures in place,” he said.In Punjab, one person is undergoing treatment at PGI in Chandigarh, while the remaining 14 are asymptomatic and under regular monitoring. One Chandigarh resident, showing symptoms of the virus, is admitted in Fortis hospital, Mohali.The minister said all districts have been instructed to ensure setting up of an isolation ward in case a suspected case is reported and all medical colleges instructed to ensure set up of wards with ventilators and essential arrangements for screening and sample collection of suspected cases. He said Punjab has initiated thermal screening of passengers at Rajasansi airport in Amritsar and at Chandigarh International Airport to check those with travel history to China. Teams of doctors and paramedical staff also been put on round-the-clock duty and an ambulance stationed in case of any emergency.“Although Mohali airport doesn’t have direct flights from China and other affected countries, the government has initiated one health checkpoint there. This dedicated team today screened persons travelling from Sharjah and found no suspected case,” he said. The health department has asked those who travelled to China in the last 28 days to report for screening and assistance at their concerned district hospital. They have also been given an option to inform about their travel at 104 helpline number.