About 240 flights a week to be cut under travel measures to fight virus 
 About 240 flights a week between Hong Kong and mainland China will be cut by local airlines under sweeping government measures to reduce cross-border transport links to tackle the deadly Wuhan coronavirus outbreak.
Local carriers Cathay Pacific and Hong Kong Airlines, already suffering because of the ongoing anti-government protests, would be forced to cut flights to the mainland by half, dealing a huge financial blow.
The flight cuts, confirming a story by the Post, were among seven measures Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor announced on Tuesday, as officials grappled with the rising threat to public health from the new coronavirus, which has killed more than 100 people on the mainland.


Analysts said the cuts would hurt local airlines but if the restrictions kept the pneumonia-causing virus at bay, it would bolster people’s confidence to travel through the city again.
From January 30, four local airlines – Cathay Pacific Airways, Hong Kong Airlines, Cathay Dragon and Hong Kong Express – would gradually reduce their scheduled passenger flights between Hong Kong and 24 mainland destinations from about 480 flights weekly to about 240 flights until further notice, the government said in a statement.
The airlines would announce details of the arrangements on their websites and assist affected passengers in rebooking, cancelling and re-routing their tickets, it said. All flights between Hong Kong and Hubei province, centre of the outbreak, have been suspended since January 24.
Airlines ramping up efforts to contain risk of transmission among staff, passengers
Industry sources said flights with the lowest demand would be cancelled. However, some flights to major cities such as Beijing and Shanghai would also be consolidated.
Cathay had already stopped overnight stays on the mainland for its flight crews and was adjusting its services accordingly.
Outside Hong Kong, the mainland market is the biggest for both local airlines. China accounts for 10 per cent of Cathay’s HK$111 billion (US$14.3 billion) annual revenue, and the carrier has played on its geographical proximity, volume of flights, ease of transfer with the mainland and its large portfolio of international flights as a unique selling point for years.

Cathay Pacific serves 22 airports on the mainland, and during peak periods has 850 weekly flights in both directions. Struggling hometown rival Hong Kong Airlines flies to 12 destinations on the mainland, with about 340 flights a week.
The city’s airlines do not expect to be compensated for the cuts.
Separately, the government floated the controversial idea of stopping mainland passengers from transiting through Hong Kong International Airport (HKIA), sources said. But because of strong resistance from the aviation industry, discussions led by the Transport and Housing Bureau stalled, according to people familiar with the matter.


The latest measures included axing individual travel visas for mainland citizens, but that would not stop travellers from transiting through HKIA.
HKIA is a major international transit hub, handling 71.5 million travellers last year. More than 50 per cent of Cathay’s customers are connecting travellers. The airline has recently focused more on transit passengers to counter the sharp drop in visitors, who are avoiding protest-hit Hong Kong, and a boycott by mainland customers.
Morningstar equity analyst Ivan Su said: “Protest in the city has done tremendous financial damage to local airlines like Cathay, and a forced reduction of China-bound flights will only make matters worse.”
Luya You, transport analyst at brokerage Bocom International, said the measures would be bad in the near term, but could ultimately help Hong Kong and its reputation recover if they effectively halted the virus.
What you need to know about the coronavirus in China
“The impact on Cathay Pacific’s mainland business will definitely be negative in the short term. But I think if this move can effectively stymie the virus’ growth in Hong Kong, then Hong Kong’s transit flow will be better protected,” she said.
You said the severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars) crisis in 2003 resulted in nearly everyone flying into and passing through Hong Kong.
“Since transit volumes have really been the only thing keeping most Hong Kong-based airlines afloat in recent months, including Cathay, HKIA can’t lose this key traffic segment,” the analyst added.
Meanwhile, Taiwan’s China Airlines will make sweeping changes to its in-flight services to Hong Kong, the mainland and Macau to minimise contact between staff and passengers.
Mainland authorities put the number of confirmed cases of the coronavirus across the country at more than 4,500 as of Tuesday. More than a dozen countries around the world have confirmed cases.
More from South China Morning Post:Wuhan coronavirus: Cathay Pacific offers refunds on all mainland China flights until end of February, as Hong Kong’s tour agents cancel bookingsWuhan coronavirus lockdown sends Cathay Pacific, China Air stocks tumbling along with broader Hong Kong, China marketsChina coronavirus: after union fury, Hong Kong’s Cathay Pacific Airways will let staff wear surgical masks on flightsFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.