Cost of coronavirus to Qantas is 'too early' to tell: Alan Joyce 
 Investment bank UBS noted that during the SARS pandemic, during which Qantas international traffic fell 11 per cent and domestic load factors dropped 4 per cent, the airline placed a freeze on discretionary expenses, incentivised staff to take leave and cut its capital expenditure.
Mr Joyce said a drop in fuel prices would help to soften the blow to the bottom line, as shares fell by about 5.3 per cent on Monday.
Qantas planned to cut its Beijing route in March, before the outbreak.Credit:Peter Rae
The virus has certainly spooked the broader world equities markets, with the Dow falling more than 1.5 per cent in Monday trading leading into a 1.4 per cent wipe-out on the Australian market on Tuesday.
UBS reduced its earnings per share estimates for Qantas by 4-5 per cent from the 2021 financial year.

In response, Mr Joyce said: “I don’t comment on analysts' reports, never have, never will.
“It is still early stages.”
Loading
The deadly coronavirus broke out in the central China city of Wuhan in December and has killed more than 130 people and infected thousands.
Mr Joyce said Qantas had been “in dialogue” with the federal government over the possible evacuation of Australians stuck in the province.

“There are a lot of complexities on this, and we are working through those complexities so we haven’t made a decision on it,” he said.
He said there had been no changes to flights so far, however the company might stop flights to Beijing earlier than planned.
Qantas planned to cut its Beijing route in March, before the outbreak.
“We will continue to review that, continue to review the loads, and whether we need to do that earlier or we can keep on operating until that date.”
Mr Joyce said the outbreak came at a time the airline was feeling financially positive after the crippling bushfire season.

He said the devastation did not have a “material” effect on the airline's bottom line.
“That was obviously before the coronavirus,” he said.
- with Elizabeth Knight

Lydia Lynch is a reporter for the Brisbane Times