The coronavirus has halted New Zealand rock lobster exports to China 
 The New Zealand rock lobster catch is 2750 tonnes annually and up until last week much of it was exported to China.

The coronavirus has halted exports of New Zealand rock lobster to China  and the $320 million industry is seeking Government assistance.

As well as restricting travel and closing local transport services, Chinese authorities are also discouraging large gatherings traditionally held around Chinese New Year, and many Chinese are also staying home to eat for fear of contracting the virus which has so far killed 106 people globally and left more than 4500 sick.

Rock Lobster Industry Council chief executive Mark Edwards said restaurant closures were occurring "well outside the epicentre" of the viral outbreak in Wuhan, and exports of live lobsters from New Zealand to China stopped last week as a result of the "dramatically" reduced demand.

READ MORE:

 * Going west: Big opportunities in China's smaller cities for Kiwi exporters

 * Kiwi wine, water and crayfish a hit with Chinese diners

 * ANZ warns Wuhan virus a 'potentially devastating' addition to economic risks

 * NZ economy starting to feel early effects of coronavirus outbreak

While supporting efforts﻿ to mitigate public health risks, the timing was of the virus outbreak was unfortunate because it occurred during the peak demand period over the Chinese New Year when prices were higher over, he said.

The industry is worth around $320 million annually and directly and indirectly employs 2500 New Zealanders, so there would be very significant economic impacts if solutions could not be found, said Edwards.

Lobsters already harvested were being held in facitlies around the country and looking for alternative markets was an option, but the Rock Lobster Indsutry Council is also talking to the Government and Fisheries New Zealand about ways to reduce the impact of the sudden drop in exports.

"The discussions with government have been constructive, and although the issues are complex, we are hopeful of a good outcome."

Edwards would not be drawn on whether the council had sought financial assistance, or whether there could be job losses on the horizon.

Meat Industry Association trade and economic manager Sirma Karapeeva said her members were also concerned about the flow on impact of fewer social gathering and restaurant closures in China as result of the virus outbreak.

"It's really hard to say what the exact impact is at the moment because the situation is evolving quite quickly and it's moving from one region to other regions."

It also appeared there were constraints on processing products arriving at Chinese ports because people were not going back to work and this had come at a time when cold storage facilities were quite full, and there was difficulty accomodating new stock, Karapeeva said.

"Most of them [meat exporters] have product on the water or just about to land in China so they are looking at things very closely, and looking at contingency plans they could activate, maybe diverting product to another market in the region."