People Who Have Never Visited China Are Infected With Coronavirus In Germany, Japan & Taiwan 
 The Wuhan Coronavirus is nowhere close to stopping and it’s spreading all across the world. And Germany, Japan and Taiwan have reported first cases of the virus. What’s shocking is the fact that the people who have been diagnosed with the disease haven’t visited China. 
 Reuters
In Germany, the first person to be contracted by the novel coronavirus says that he allegedly got it from a ‘Chinese’ colleague. They were attending a training seminar together in Bavaria a week ago, and according to the patient, the woman he was infected from had recently been to Wuhan to visit her parents. As per reports by German news channel DW, is in a medically good state.
In Japan, a 60-year old man from the Nara prefecture contract the Wuhan Virus. The symptoms first surfaced on January 14 and was hospitalised on January 25. He works as a tour bus driver and feels that he would have come in contact with the virus with tourists from Wuhan -- the place where this virus originated -- around twice this month. His medical condition hasn’t been released by officials.
Taiwan, on the other hand, has eight confirmed cases of the Wuhan Virus as of now. The first person that contracted the virus through another human was a 50-year old Taiwanese resident, who claims to have gotten it from his wife, who works in China. Reports have revealed that he is in stable condition for now.
 Reuters
 The Wuhan Coronavirus has over 4000 confirmed cases not just in China but across the globe and has claimed over 100 lives. 

The Coronavirus is causing pneumonia-like symptoms among people. People with stronger immunity have better chances of recovering from this disease instantly whereas people with poorer immunity -- young and old -- can cause serious respiratory diseases.
There is no particular vaccine or medicine that can save you from contracting Wuhan Virus, however, an Indian doctor claims to have found the cure with herbal ayurvedic medicine. The symptoms mostly disappear on their own and can be eased a little by doctors prescribing fever or pain medication.