Coronavirus: Australian students get conflicting advice about return to school 
 State and federal education departments have issued conflicting advice to families returning from China as students go back to school this week, while improvements in testing and new quarantine measures for coronavirus come into force.

The New South Wales and Western Australian governments have advised parents with children who have recently returned from China to stay at home for two weeks.

The Queensland health department advised that unwell young children with links to affected areas “should not attend childcare or kindergarten”.

But the federal government, South Australia and Victorian governments have advised that children who are well and have not been in contact with someone who has a confirmed case of novel coronavirus can attend school.

Guardian Australia has sought comment from the Northern Territory and Australian Capital Territory governments. The Tasmanian education department is developing a policy before school returns next week.

At a press conference in Canberra on Wednesday the prime minister, Scott Morrison, expressed support for a cautious approach by schools saying: “As a parent in NSW I don’t have a problem with [the NSW policy] and an abundance of caution.”

New quarantine measures will come into force as the government starts evacuating “isolated and vulnerable” Australians from the affected region of Hubei, in China. Australians will be taken to Christmas island for two weeks.

The city of Wuhan, the epicentre of the illness, remains on lockdown, along with the province of Hubei, as China authorities try to stop the disease spreading.

The death toll has passed 100 and there are more than 4,500 confirmed cases of infection in mainland China.

Twenty-six people in four states were waiting for test results on Wednesday, and five people who had tested positive were in hospital in a stable condition.

Thirteen people in Victoria, six in NSW, six in South Australia and one in Tasmania are waiting for test results and 52 people nationally have been tested and cleared.

On Wednesday an Australian research facility announced it had the first team outside China to re-create the deadly virus in a lab.

Researchers at the Peter Doherty institute for infection and immunity in Melbourne worked through the night from early Saturday until Monday to grow and sequence the virus.

“This is one step, a piece in the puzzle that we have contributed,” said the head of the virus identification laboratory, Dr Julian Druce.

The discovery would improve the speed and accuracy of tests and increase the chances of developing a vaccine.

The lab-grown virus was developed from the first infected patient to be identified in Australia, and will be shared with laboratories across the country and globally.

The researchers used a segment of the genome sequence of the virus which had previously been released by Chinese officials, but said the next step was to sequence the full genome.

Druce said the Australian development was a “game-changer for diagnosis”.

“Having the real virus means we now have the ability to actually validate and verify all test methods, and compare their sensitivities and specificities,” he said on Wednesday.

The virus is expected to generate an antibody test, which allows it to be detected in patients who have not shown symptoms and were unaware they had it.

The institute’s deputy director, Dr Mike Catton, said it would help develop a more realistic picture of how the virus was tracking.

“An antibody test will enable us to retrospectively test suspected patients so we can gather a more accurate picture of how widespread the virus is, and consequently, among other things, the true mortality rate,” Catton said.

Australia’s chief medical officer, Prof Brendan Murphy, said the breakthrough was significant, particularly for providing controls for tests and speeding up an antibody test.

“It’s a very significant development and it’s very, very positive,” he told ABC radio.