Coronavirus: The controversial Australian island Kiwis may be quarantined on 
 As the coronavirus outbreak causes chaos in China, Australia and New Zealand have hatched a plan to evacuate their citizens from Wuhan, where the virus originated, and possibly quarantine them on Christmas Island.

But the island, located around 1500 kilometres northwest of Australia's west coast, isn't a tropical getaway for those escaping the outbreak, in fact it's been labelled a nightmare by many who had been detained there.

The island was home to an immigration detention centre that was regularly opened and closed by Australian politicians. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison confirmed on Wednesday that this is where the Australian and, most likely, New Zealand citizens, would be quarantined for the recommended 14 days.

Over the years the detention centre had been a topic of discussion in Australia. Morrison, who was the first prime minister to visit the island, spent A$1.4 billion (NZ$1.45b) reopening it in 2019 to stop refugees going to the mainland. According to Australian media, it cost almost A$5m (NZ$5.18m) a month to operate it.

READ MORE:

 * New Zealand lobster exports to China halted on back of coronavirus

 * Massey's links with Wuhan closely monitored after virus outbreak

 * Tourism operators appeal to domestic visitors as Chinese cancel tours in wake of coronavirus

 * New Zealand will partner with Australia to get stranded Kiwis out of Wuhan

 * 'Australia is open': PM Scott Morrison wants tourists to keep coming

In 2015, over 200 people were detained there, but from September 2019 it only housed one family of four. A Sri Lankan Tamil family, which included two toddlers born in Australia, was taken from their rural Queensland home in March 2018 after the mother's visa expired. Staff, including cleaners and gardners, were employed to care for the centre.

It was also the site of the Tampa controversy in 2001, in which over 430 asylum seekers rescued from a stranded Indonesian fishing boat were taken aboard a Norwegian freighter. The captain defied orders from Canberra to stay out of Australian waters. SAS troops eventually took control of the vessel and Australian legislation was changed allowing the government to remove unwelcome vessels from its waters.

The island wasn't always known for its refugee detainment - it once housed the Christmas Island Resort and Casino, but that shut down in 1998. It now also boasts a luxury private retreat.

Located south of Indonesia the Australian territory was home to over 1800 people, according to the 2016 Census.

Over the years New Zealanders were regularly sent to the detention centre on the island, having been transferred from mainland centres. Five years ago, seven Kiwis were flown off the island for allegedly leading riots.

Previously around 40 Kiwis who were detained on the island only had two options to leave, either get a new visa or be deported.

Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern was yet to confirm whether New Zealanders would be among those quarantined on the island.