Wuhan Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) Symptoms & Treatment 
 Facts you should know about the Wuhan coronavirus (2019 novel coronavirus or 2019-nCoV)

Facts you should know about the Wuhan coronavirus (2019 novel coronavirus or 2019-nCoV)

What is the Wuhan coronavirus (2019 novel coronavirus or 2019-nCoV)? The Wuhan coronavirus is a single-stranded, positive-sense RNA coronavirus. It is a new strain (only found and named about 1 month ago) of coronavirus (means crown) that is causing an outbreak of serious respiratory problems in Wuhan, China. Researchers think it originated from infected animals and jumped over to infecting people in a large open seafood/animal market. Also, the virus is capable of person-to-person transmission, spreading to at least to 16 countries in about 1 month. It is related to the SARS and MERS coronaviruses.

What are risk factors for Wuhan coronavirus infections? Risk factors for the virus include close contact with someone who has recently visited Wuhan, China; recent travel to Wuhan, China, and other cities experiencing this outbreak; close contact with anyone diagnosed with the virus; and coming in contact with secretions (for example, those produced by sneeze or cough) from an infected person. Some investigators suggest that no wild animals be used for food in China or elsewhere.

What are the signs and symptoms of infection with the Wuhan coronavirus? Medical researchers estimate that the incubation period varies from 2 days to about 14 days. Symptoms may begin like the flu but go on to develop fever, cough, and shortness of breath that is severe enough to warrant hospitalization in many patients. Although early in this outbreak, Chinese researchers suggest that people who are infected but don't show symptoms (incubation period) may be contagious. This allows the virus to spread more effectively from person to person and makes it more difficult to isolate infected patients.

How does the Wuhan coronavirus spread? Many coronavirus types infect species of animals that occasionally (or rarely) are able to infect humans. MERS coronavirus is an example where the virus that usually only infected camels became able to infect humans. Wuhan coronavirus is similar as the initially infected people frequented an open-air food market that sold fish and animals, including wild animals. Medical researchers currently do not know the animal species infected, but wild animals are a suspected source. However, the rapid spread of the virus was due to person-to-person contact that has been responsible for the wide outbreak of this infection. Close contact with someone who is infected or with their secretions (for example, cough-generated droplets) is how the virus spreads. Although this virus is contagious, the contagious period of time remains to be determined. Recent findings suggest it may be contagious even in the incubation period when the patient shows no symptoms.