China willing to maintain communication with other countries over prevention of 2019-nCoV spread: FM - People's Daily Online 
 BEIJING, Jan. 28 -- China is willing to stay in communication with other countries, including Britain, in order to properly handle the issues related to prevention and control of the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV), Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said Tuesday in a phone talk with his British counterpart.


	Commending the Chinese government's decisive measures against the outbreak of pneumonia caused by the novel coronavirus and the consequent positive results, British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said that his country is willing to strengthen coordination and cooperation with China, and would try its best to supply China with medical materials in need.


	For his part, Wang Yi, also China's state councilor, said that under the leadership of President Xi Jinping, China has established a prevention and control system covering the whole country and the efforts in all aspects are moving forward comprehensively.


	The reason why China has taken some extraordinary resolute measures is to control the epidemic and put everything back on track as soon as possible, Wang said.


	Given the current situation, the epidemic is controllable and curable, Wang said, adding that China has the institutional advantage of concentrating resources and accomplishing big things, so that we have confidence in and the capability of overcoming the epidemic.


	Noting that the destinies of all countries are closely linked and they share weal and woe in the age of globalization, Wang said China has always attached great importance to international cooperation in public health, informing all parties of the epidemic information and sharing the genetic sequence of the coronavirus in the principle of openness and transparency.


	World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus visited China recently and highly appreciated the strict and effective measures taken by China, Wang said, adding that the WHO does not recommend any hasty repatriation from a professional point of view.


	As a responsible country, China treats Chinese citizens and the foreigners in China equally and will continue to effectively protect the health and life safety of all people, Wang said.


	Both sides agreed that under the background of increasing global challenges, China and Britain, as permanent members of the UN Security Council, should strengthen strategic communication and coordination, demonstrate the good prospects of bilateral ties, create a real "golden era" for China-British relations, and jointly safeguard the international and regional peace and stability.