'Ramping up': Sixteen people, including 2yo, tested for deadly coronavirus in NSW 
 The number of people in NSW under investigation for coronavirus has jumped from six to 16, the state health authority has confirmed.

NSW Health said there was no cause for alarm over the increase as testing is simply "ramping up".

Four people in Sydney and one in Melbourne have returned positive results for novel coronavirus which originated at a seafood market in Wuhan, China.

NSW chief health officer Kerry Chant said two of the four Sydney patients have improved significantly and are almost ready to be discharged from Westmead Hospital.

"They are moving towards being totally recovered," she said.

There are 16 patients, 10 male and six female, waiting on test results today whose ages range from 2 to 66. All are in isolation.

Previously, investigations have only been ordered for about six people a day in Sydney but NSW Health says they are now broadening their testing to those with more mild symptoms.

"Nothing has radically changed, it just reflects us opening up more testing to better understand and detect any cases that may be in NSW," Dr Chant said.

"If this 16 comes back negative, it shows we are testing lots of people but still not finding anything which is reassuring."

Three of the four cases in Sydney spent time in Wuhan and the fourth person had been in another area of China with a family member from Wuhan who was subsequently diagnosed with coronavirus.

There has yet to be any human to human transmission of coronavirus in Australia.

Dr Chant said while the confirmed cases in Australia were less severe than those seen in China, this meant anyone with low level symptoms needed to seek medical advice.

"So even if you just have a runny nose, you're feeling just unwell, still please come forward."

Yesterday the NSW Health and Education Departments asked parents to keep students home from school if they have returned from China in the past two weeks.

This decision was made as a precaution as the risk of the virus spreading is low according to authorities but the incubation period can be up to 14 days.

Coronavirus has killed 130 people in China and infected over 6,000 across the country.