Uni students say they won't going back after classmate got coronavirus 
 Students at a Sydney university where a classmate was diagnosed with coronavirus say they are too afraid to go back to class.

The 21-year-old Chinese student was diagnosed with the deadly virus earlier this week after she flew back from Wuhan on January 23.

She isolated herself in her dorm room at the University of NSW when she developed flu-like symptoms after getting off the plane and went to hospital the next day.

Six people in Australia have been diagnosed and at least another another 16 suspected cases are being tested to confirm.

Coronavirus has killed 103 people and infected more than 6,000 around the world so far, and the government plans to evacuate 600 Australians trapped in Wuhan.

UNSW students reacted with shock as the news of their classmate's infection spread and were fearful that they could be next, especially when thousands of Chinese students return to campus.

Hundreds on social media said they planned to skip classes, insist on doing their courses online, or take the semester off entirely.

Others begged the university to postpone orientation week, which begins on February 10, and the start of classes a week later.

'Please cancel I don't wanna die at UNSW,' one student wrote.

'Well I guess I'm just going to defer this semester,' another wrote.

Some students planned to still study, but called for them to be allowed to take their classes online to avoid campus during the coronavirus crisis.

'They should have an online only option, don't wanna get sick,' one wrote, while another said 'surely they are getting rid of all compulsory classes?'

Parents and friends also expressed concern, some warning students against setting foot on the Randwick complex.

'I would be concerned about my child going to that uni, who else has been infected! This is the scary part!' one mother wrote.

Another added: 'Now I can start to worry again my grand daughter has stared her first day of classes.'

NSW Health said the student was being treated in isolation at Westmead Hospital and only had limited contact with people in Australia - reducing the likelihood that she had spread the virus.

'The student did not attend any classes at the university and stayed on her own in campus accommodation with no close contact before she was admitted to hospital,' UNSW said in an email to students.

Students expressed frustration that the university did not specify which campus accommodation the student was staying in and would not tell them.

Photos taken outside Westmead Hospital on Sunday showed a young woman wearing a face mask being moved by paramedics with protective gloves, masks and clothing.

Health authorities are now working to track down people the woman came into contact with and potentially infected.

NSW Chief Health Officer Kerry Chant said test results for the most recent 16 cases are expected by Wednesday afternoon, and will be shared with the public.

All 16 patients, 10 men and six women, who are believed to be carrying the virus are in isolation awaiting their test results.

Their ages range from just two years old through to 66.

'The fact we have 16 cases under investigation just reflects that we've broadened our testing... to focus on the Hubei province not just Wuhan and any contacts of confirmed cases,' Dr Chant told reporters in Sydney on Wednesday.

'That is to detect any cases and take a very precautionary approach. We're also increasingly realising the disease profile can be quite varying.'

'We want to get the message out there that even people with low-level symptoms should come forward,' Dr Chant said.

The state has so far tested more than 40 people.