Sixth Australian coronavirus case confirmed by health authorities 
 A sixth confirmed novel coronavirus case has been identified in Australia, bring Victoria's total number of infected people to two.

The most recent case has been identified as a Victorian man in his 60s who became unwell on 23 January, before being tested by his general practitioner, Victoria's Chief Health Officer Brett Sutton said on Wednesday.

Another 14 people were currently undergoing testing in the state, he added.

"It does bring home the issue that we need to bear in mind that anyone coming out of China and in particular from Wuhan or Hubei province is not at insignificant risk of developing illness with coronavirus," Dr Sutton said.

The Victorian announcement came after the number of people being investigated for the virus in NSW jumped from six to 16, as health authorities encouraged people with minor cold-like systems to come forward.

NSW Chief Health Officer Kerry Chant told reporters on Wednesday that authorities have found that the symptoms of the virus, also known as 2019-nCoV, can be more varied than originally thought.

"Even if you have that bit of runny nose, you are feeling just unwell, please come forward because we want to both detect those cases but also it will help us in our understanding," she said, adding that testing had been broadened to include people who have visited the wider central Chinese Hubei province.

The people under investigation in NSW include a 10 men and six women, aged from two to 66 years old.

The other confirmed cases in Australia are all in Sydney, including one woman and three men.

No other Australian states or territories have announced any confirmed cases.

Meanwhile, seven people in South Australia are currently undergoing testing, according to the state's health department, after four people were cleared in Western Australia on Tuesday night.

Dr Chant said more than 40 people in NSW has so far been tested for the virus, in what she called a "precautionary approach".

"We want visitors from China and the Hubei province, in particular, to feel very comfortable coming forward to get tested and diagnosed and giving them the reassurance that our health system will care for them," she said.

The announcement comes hours after Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced plans to evacuate some of the hundreds of Australians currently trapped in Wuhan, the epicentre of the virus, and send them to Christmas Island for a two-week quarantine period.

The decision to use Christmas Island as a "quarantine area" was slammed by the Shire Council Mayor of Christmas Island Gordon Thomson, who reportedly told ABC News it would "create a convict settlement for innocent people, now we'll be a leper colony."

More than 50 million people have been locked down in and around Wuhan in a bid by authorities to stop the spread of the virus, which has so far infected almost 6,000 people and killed 132.

In response, the government has updated it's Smart Traveller website warning Australians against travel to the entirety of China.

On Tuesday, NSW and Western Australian authorities urged parents to keep their children home from school if they had travelled to China within the past two weeks, conflicting with federal government advice that students should attend school as usual.

"My kids went back to school this week as many other kids have," Mr Morrison said.

“I understand the issues and concerns that parents would have. Being one of them myself. And that is why it is important to take the advice, and I think the chief medical officer today has set out the situation very soundly.”