28 Suspected Novel Coronavirus Infections in S. Korea 
 Anchor: South Korean disease control authorities say no additional confirmations of the new coronavirus have been made as of Monday, with a total of 28 people suspected of infection. While the disease is fast spreading in China, Seoul and Beijing's top diplomats discussed ways to fight the outbreak together, as well as the evacuation of Koreans from Wuhan, the Chinese epicenter of the respiratory disease. 

Our Kim Bum-soo has wrapped up the latest. 


Report: The quarantine authorities say a total of 28 people in South Korea are suspected to have contracted the novel coronavirus that originated in China.


The Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention(KCDC) on Wednesday updated the public of the situation, saying no additional cases have been reported in the country.


The 28 with suspected symptoms are being tested for infection at isolation facilities while the number of confirmed infections remains at four nationwide after 155 people tested negative among 183 who initially had suspected symptoms. 


A total of 387 people have been exposed to confirmed patients and are being closely monitored.


In China, a total of 132 people are confirmed to have died after contracting the coronavirus in the central city of Wuhan. More than five-thousand-970 have been infected with the respiratory disease as of Wednesday afternoon.


The number of confirmed cases of the new coronavirus has now surpassed that of the 2003 SARS outbreak during which five-thousand-300 people were infected and 336 died in China. 


[Sound bite: World Health Organization spokesperson Christian Lindmeier (English)] 

"The global risk assessment is high. The regional level is high and for China, it's very high."


However, World Health Organization spokesperson Christian Lindmeier said Tuesday that the global risk level of the new virus hadn't reached a "very high" assessment globally. 


[Sound bite: World Health Organization spokesperson Christian Lindmeier (English)]

"The incubation period you're referring to as anything, can be anything between one and 14 days. That's what the experience so far shows and yes, that means people can transmit the virus within this time. On the other we don't yet know fully how heavily symptomatic someone has to be. So we know that the people can be very, have very light symptoms, just a bit of a cough and headache, let's say. It can be having fever as well, of course, or it could be heavy with respiratory problems, up to a full lung infection. So all the range."


South Korean Foreign Minister Kang Kyung-wha and her Chinese counterpart Wang Yi had telephone talks Tuesday evening to discuss ways to protect Korean nationals in China against the outbreak. 


South Korea is planning to send four chartered flights to Wuhan from Thursday to Friday to bring home some 700 South Koreans. Kang also pledged Seoul's active cooperation and provision of relief supplies to help China combat the virus. 


Expressing gratitude for Seoul's support, Wang said that Beijing will closely cooperate in the protection of South Koreans in China, as well as maintain close communication and cooperation with the South Korean government in dealing with the virus.  

Kim Bum-soo, KBS World Radio News.