Amid coronavirus fears, private school says students shouldn't needlessly stay home 
 St Leonard’s College in Brighton, meanwhile, has told families it is postponing all three of its school trips to Asia, even though they do not visit the areas affected by the coronavirus.
Parents were informed of the decision on Tuesday night via an email, just five weeks before planned departure. 
More than 180 year 9 students had expected to embark on the trips to Asia as part of the school's annual “Big Experience” educational program. 
Two of the trips were not due to visit China, and none of the trips included plans to visit anywhere within 800 kilometres of impacted areas.

“It is evident that there is a level of concern that we are all feeling, which I believe would make it inappropriate to forge ahead with our plans to depart in term one,” Mr Davis wrote.
“I recognise that this change may raise a number of issues yet to be considered and I welcome learning about these in the near future.”
St Leonard’s has, like many private schools across Melbourne, also asked students recently returning from Hubei province to remain at home even if they do not exhibit symptoms of coronavirus, an action that goes beyond the Education Department’s advice.
St Leonard’s principal Stuart Davis said every family asked to stay home has agreed and “they feel better for doing that”.

“We need to make sure there is not some type of sudden concern that can be related to what can be a slightly racist behaviour and making sure sensible health restrictions are in place,” he said.
Loading
“What we are mindful of is there are going to be anxieties, there is going to be a changing landscape and we can’t predict what is going to happen in five weeks,” Mr Davis said.
“Travelling for three weeks in that part of the world, there is a challenge to remain in perfect health.”
Mr Davis said the trips will be rescheduled to October and the school will cover any excess fees.

“From a financial perspective, it would have been difficult to cancel any later [than now],” Mr Davis said.