Australia to evacuate citizens from Wuhan 
 The federal government is hoping to evacuate Australians trapped in Wuhan

Australians trapped in the epicentre of China's deadly coronavirus will be evacuated and quarantined on Christmas Island.

The rescue operation will be performed in partnership with the New Zealand government on a "last in, first out" basis.

Priority will be given to "isolated and vulnerable" people including infants and the elderly.

There are more than 600 Australian citizens in the Chinese province of Hubei, including its capital city of Wuhan.

Qantas has offered to help them leave.

However, Australia and New Zealand need China's permission before sending in a chartered plane.

China has not yet approved the plan.

"This will be done subject obviously to working closely and with the authority and approval of the Chinese government," Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Wednesday.

"I stress there is rather a limited window here and we are moving very, very swiftly to ensure we can put this plan together and put the operation together."

Evacuated Australians will be quarantined on Christmas Island for up to 14 days.

Specialist medical teams and Australian Defence Force troops will be deployed to the island.

New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said her government was still working on the protocols for its citizens.

"Specific details of the evacuation plan, including the medical protocols that will be applied to returning New Zealanders, and access arrangements on the ground in China are being worked through by officials," she said.

Mr Morrison sought to temper the expectations of Australian citizens who are either trapped in Hubei or have family members in the province.

"I want to stress that we cannot give a guarantee that this operation is able to succeed," he said.

"I also want to stress very clearly that we may not be in a position if we're able to do this on one occasion to do it on another occasion."

Other nations have been much faster to evacuate their citizens.

Japan rescued its citizens on Tuesday, while South Korea will charter a plane into Wuhan on Thursday.

But Mr Morrison denied his government was too slow to respond to the crisis.

The prime minister said Australia was in a different position to many other countries, including the United States and United Kingdom, as it did not have an established consular presence in Wuhan.

The federal government is making one million masks available for patients and health workers at general practices where somebody has come forward with coronavirus symptoms.

Australia has also upgraded its official travel advice, urging people to reconsider all travel to China.

China has confirmed there are now more than 6000 confirmed cases of coronavirus and 132 deaths.

The official number of Australian cases rose to six on Wednesday, with authorities expecting additional cases to be reported in the near future.