Kiwi among scientists in Australia to grow Wuhan coronavirus - a first outside China 
 A New Zealander is among scientists in Australia who are the first outside China to grow the Wuhan coronavirus.

​The breakthrough is hoped to speed up diagnosis and aid in the development of a vaccine.

The pneumonia-like coronavirus has now killed 132 people, mostly in China, and as of Wednesday morning there were 6000 confirmed cases. Wuhan was believed to be the place of origin of the virus.

Scientists from Melbourne's Doherty Institute used a patient sample that arrived at Royal Melbourne Hospital on Friday to successfully grow the virus, announcing their "game-changing" development on Wednesday morning.

READ MORE:

 * Life as a foreigner riding out the lockdown in coronavirus-hit Wuhan

 * Coronavirus: The controversial Australian island Kiwis may be quarantined on

 * New Zealand lobster exports to China halted on back of coronavirus

Dr Mike Catton, who studied microbiology at Otago University and is deputy director of the Doherty Institute, credited the breakthrough to Australia's network of laboratories and public health authorities.

Scientists at the Doherty Institute have "planned for an incident like this for many, many years and that's really why we were able to get an answer so quickly," Catton said.

There are currently no proven therapies for the novel coronavirus, which authorities believe originated from a seafood market in the Chinese city of Wuhan. Researchers in the US, Japan and mainland China are racing to produce a vaccine for the deadly coronavirus.

Dr Julian Druce, head of the Doherty Institute's virus identification lab, said up to now health authorities have been using the genome sequence of the novel coronavirus to identify cases.

"Having the real virus means we now have the ability to actually validate and verify all test methods, and compare their sensitivities and specificities. It will be a game-changer for diagnosis," he said.

So far Australia has five confirmed cases of coronavirus – four in NSW and one in Victoria. All Australian cases were contracted in China, where there have now been more than 5000 confirmed cases and 106 deaths.

Outside China and Australia, more than 80 cases have been confirmed across 13 countries. There have been no cases confirmed in New Zealand.

New Zealanders are being advised not to travel to China following the coronavirus outbreak.

Mfat updated its China travel advisory on Wednesday to "avoid non-essential travel elsewhere in China due to the recent outbreak of a novel coronavirus and associated travel restrictions."

It also advises "do not travel to Hubei Province", where Wuhan is located.

The warning follows the foreign offices in the UK and Australia in advising against travel to any parts of China.

Druce said scientists had been working around the clock since receiving the sample on Friday.

"It's been 10 to 12-hour days, 2am finishes, so it's been pretty full on," he told the ABC.

The lab-grown virus will now be shared with the Australian network of public health laboratories and expert laboratories working closely with the World Health Organisation (WHO) in Europe, Dr Druce said.

It's expected to be used to generate an antibody test, which would allow detection of the virus in patients who haven't displayed symptoms and were therefore unaware they had the virus.

It will also be used to test the effectiveness of trial vaccines.

US health officials announced on Wednesday an early-stage trial would begin within the next three months.

Meanwhile, Hong Kong researchers say they already developed a vaccine for coronavirus – but need time to test it.

"We have already produced the vaccine, but it will take a long time to test on animals," Infectious diseases expert Professor Yuen Kwok-yung told The South China Morning Post without giving a timeline on when it would be ready for patients.