A women’s football team is in isolation in a Brisbane hotel 
 The Chinese women’s national football team is holed up in a hotel in Brisbane as the number of Australian cases of coronavirus rises to six.
Queensland officials this afternoon revealed the team, which had travelled to Wuhan, arrived in Brisbane at 9am.
The women were taken to their hotel and have been in isolation there since.
While all are said to be well, they are to remain in isolation for 14 days as per the new national protocol announced this afternoon.
The team will have to stay in isolation until February 5.
“The Department of Health is working closely with them and with the management of the hotel where they are staying to ensure that they are appropriately isolated from other guests as well as staff and to ensure that protocols are put in place to check their health and to keep them well,” Queensland Health Minister Steven Miles said this afternoon.
There are still no confirmed cases in Queensland but 19 people are awaiting test results.
This afternoon Victorian health officials revealed a second case for the state, taking the national toll to six. Four people have been diagnosed in NSW.
RELATED: Follow updates on the coronavirus outbreak
The new protocol was also announced this afternoon after officials met across the country to urgently discuss current advice. Queensland has adopted the national approach.
Australian is taking a “highly precautionary approach” and making the following new recommendations.
Contacts of any confirmed coronavirus cases now must be isolated in their home following exposure.
Returned travellers who have been in the Hubei province of China, not just Wuhan where the virus broke out, must also be isolated in their home for 14 days after leaving the area, other than seeking medical care.
“Given the substantially lower number of cases in China reported outside of Hubei province, we do not currently recommend self-isolation for travellers from other parts of China or from other countries,” chief health officer Brendan Murphy said.
“We are however closely monitoring the development of cases outside of the Hubei province and will update this advice if necessary.”
He said the aim was containment of novel coronavirus and the prevention of person to person transmission within Australia.
Health Minister Greg Hunt said even if a person hadn’t been in direct contact with someone who had coronavirus they should still self-isolate on returning to Australia.
“This makes Australia one of the most forward leading and one of the most cautious countries in the world,” he said.
“We make no apology for that. Our job is to save lives and protect lives. Our job is to make sure above all else we’re protecting the health of Australian citizens. With these decisions we have become one of the world’s most cautious and conservative countries with the decisions we’ve taken.”
About 400 Australians have registered for evacuation from Wuhan.
The coronavirus has caused 132 deaths so far, most of them in Hubei province.
There are currently 6000 confirmed cases of the virus worldwide, and the number of suspected cases has risen to more than 9000.