Possible US-China Flight Ban For Wuhan Virus Not Straightforward: Passengers Transit In Japan, Korea And Hong Kong 
 A potential US ban on China flights to prevent the spread of Wuhan coronavirus is not straightforward. Passengers between China and the US transit through other locations, notably Korea, Japan and Hong Kong. Banning only China flights would leave other travel options open while a larger ban covering multiple jurisdictions would be complex and politically sensitive as the virus remains largely isolated in Mainland China with few cases in North America.
Hong Kong announced only a partial ban effective January 30 that sees a halving of flights between the territory and Mainland China. The measure was made as part of other steps after the public faulted the government for an initially slow and weak response. Public dissent culminated with a protest and even non-fatal bombing of a hospital.
While the US has not yet opted to ban flights from China, there are multiple reports the White House briefed airlines that it could halt flights if the virus becomes a larger public health threat – which it is not yet for the US. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has confirmed just five positive cases and 73 pending cases as of January 27.
United Airlines has already planned to reduce flights between the US and Greater China citing weakened demand. Both the US and China have issued travel advisories.
“This is a potentially very serious public health threat, but at this point Americans should not worry for their own safety,” Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar said. “In terms of travel restrictions…it’s important to not take anything off the table with a rapidly emerging novel infectious disease,” Azar said.
The World Health Organization said it is “against the application of any restrictions of international traffic based on the information currently available.”
The White House’s possible plan has not publicly addressed passengers who travel between the US and Mainland China via a third location like Japan, Korea or Hong Kong. Hong Kong International, Seoul Incheon, Tokyo Haneda and Tokyo Narita are common transit airport, although exact figures are difficult to discern since most available booking data does not fully capture tickets sold in China.
A study led by Cranfield University in 2016 estimated 20% of passengers between the US and China travelled indirectly, an increase from 14% in 2008. More recently the share of indirect travel has likely decreased due to the proliferation of non-stop flights between China and the US, mostly from Chinese airlines.
Not addressing third country hubs in a ban could see non-stop traffic redirected via hubs. The Cranfield study found 86% of indirect passengers in 2013 transited in just three cities: Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo. But it is more than Asian hubs that would need to be addressed. Air Canada’s international growth includes being a stopover carrier between the US and intercontinental destinations while Finnair promotes itself and its Helsinki hub as being well-placed between North America and Asia.
While Taiwan has favourable geography to be a hub between the US and Mainland China, for political reasons China Airlines and EVA Air have insignificant transit traffic.
Dr. Zhihang Chi, Air China Vice President for North America, announces the new expanded Air China ... [+] services for the US which includes three non-stop flights per day from Los Angeles to Beijing at Los Angeles International Airport, California on February 19, 2015.              AFP PHOTO/MARK RALSTON        (Photo credit should read MARK RALSTON/AFP via Getty Images)
AFP via Getty Images