Executives Try to Assess Financial Impact of Coronavirus Measures 
 Finance executives at international companies are taking measures to protect their employees and their customers against the coronavirus, but say it is too early to tell what the financial implications might be for their businesses.
 Companies across a range of industries, including travel, leisure and consumer products, could be negatively affected by the continued spread of the virus that originated in the Chinese city of Wuhan and has since moved across China and to other countries, including the U.S., according to analysts at 






            Moody’s Investors Service.


      





      




       “The fear of contagion could dampen consumer demand, and affect tourism, travel, trade and services in affected countries,” said 




      Atsi Sheth, 




       a managing director at Moody’s, according to a news release.
 Stocks of some travel companies, alongside casino and hotel operators, have taken a hit, and more businesses are expected to report a financial impact should the virus keep spreading, analysts said.
 





       



       Costa Cruises, a subsidiary of Miami-based Carnival Corp., said it has canceled four cruises but declined to comment on what this would cost the company.
  






            PerkinElmer Inc.,


       a Waltham, Mass.-based testing and diagnostics company, said it anticipates a potential negative impact on some of its franchise businesses, as patients in China may avoid going to the hospital for immunology and infectious disease testing, according to a Monday earnings call.
 Executives have taken various steps in response to the virus.
  






            Kraft Heinz Co.,


       the consumer-goods giant, on Monday introduced a global employee travel ban to and from China, spokesman 




      Michael Mullen




       said. “This will help reduce the unnecessary risk of virus exposure or transmission and is the most prudent measure to take while we continue to closely monitor the situation in China,” Mr. Mullen said.
  






            Honeywell International Inc.


       said it has limited travel to areas affected by the virus. Auto makers, including 






            Ford Motor Co.


       and 






            Fiat Chrysler Automobiles


       NV, also have restricted travel. 






            Nissan Motor Co.,


       which is building a new plant in Wuhan, had some of its Japanese expatriates return home, a spokesman said.
  






            Starbucks Corp.,




            McDonald’s Corp.


       and 






            Yum China Holdings Inc.


       have temporarily closed stores in China. Starbucks said it is unable to estimate the impact to its China-business, according to a Tuesday earnings call. 
 Ford said it is still assessing the costs of the prolongation of the Lunar New Year holiday, which has been extended until early February. Other foreign companies with large facilities in China, including German chemicals maker 






            BASF SE,


       said it is too early to quantify potential hits to the business from the spread of the virus.
 Companies have ordered employees to work from home once the Lunar New Year holiday ends. 






            SAP SE,


       the German software company, handed out masks to employees and asked its employees to work from home until Feb. 10, according to 




      Andreas Hube, 




       head of the company’s China liaison office.
 Law firm CMS China canceled meetings and is considering asking its employees to work from home once the spring break holiday is over, said 




      Ulrike Glueck, 




       managing partner in Shanghai.
 





       



        






            Standard Chartered


       PLC, the U.K.-based emerging markets bank, said it is training its employees to disinfect and deep clean buildings and to recognize symptoms, as well as providing masks and hand sanitizers.
 “We have a well-established business continuity plan that covers pandemic outbreaks,” said 




      Jonathan Tracey, 




       Standard Chartered’s global head for communications.
 Petrofer Chemie H.R. Fischer GmbH + Co. KG, a German chemicals company with operations in China, said the spread of the virus could hamper its supply chains, both with regard to raw materials as well as with finished products. “We will have problems, but it is too early to tell what the financial impact will be,” managing director 




      Constantin Fischer




       said in an interview.
  Write to Nina Trentmann at Nina.Trentmann@wsj.com







      





  Copyright ©2019 Dow Jones  Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 87990cbe856818d5eddac44c7b1cdeb8