XE Market Analysis: Europe - Jan 29, 2020 
 The yen and Swiss franc have settled at softer levels amid a paring back in risk-off positioning. Markets are monitoring the coronavirus situation closely, and have found some comfort from the increasing extensive efforts of China and other nations to contain its spread. Equity markets on Wall Street yesterday, and Asian bourses today, have managed to post gains, though investors are likely to remain cautious, with the net two weeks likely to be telling with regard to how bad things may or may not get. USD-JPY posted a two-day high at 109.26, up from the three-week low that was seen on Monday at 108.73. USD-CHF edged out a 19-day high, while EUR-CHF printed an eight-day peak at 1.0732, up from the 33-month low seen yesterday at 1.0665. The dollar bloc currencies, which underperformed markedly in recent days, are up from recent lows, though remain heavy. AUD-USD posted a two-day high at 0.6777, lifting out of the three-and-a-half-month low seen yesterday at 0.6737. USD-CAD settled in the mid 1.3100s after rallying by more than 1% over the last week, which yesterday left a near seven-week high at 1.3204. Oil prices are up over 3% from the trend lows that were seen on Monday, which has helped the Canadian dollar find a footing. Sterling, which had been under pressure this week into tomorrow's BoE monetary policy review, has found a footing. Cable settled above 1.3000, up from yesterday's nine-day low at 1.2975.



[EUR, USD]

EUR-USD has remained heavy after posting a two-month low at 1.0998 yesterday. The low is the culmination of a moderate downtrend that's been unfolding over the last couple of weeks, from levels above 1.1150. The dollar has been outperforming the common currency in the context of rising risk aversion in global markets. The ECB left policy and guidance unchanged at its policy review last Thursday, with the central bank's president, Lagarde, stating that economic risks remain tilted to the downside and that accommodative monetary policy will remain in place for the foreseeable future. Bigger picture, the pair has been trending lower since early 2018, dropping from levels near 1.2500 and posting a 32-month low at 1.0879 in early October, the current nadir of the trend. Momentum has faded, however, with the Fed having backed out of its tightening phase after hiking rates three times last year. The central bank has since been engaged in capping the repo rate, which has seen its balance swell by some 11% since last September, and Fed funds futures are discounting about 72% odds for a 25 bp easing at the last FOMC meeting of the year in December.



[USD, JPY]

The yen has settled at softer levels amid a paring back in risk-off positioning. Markets are monitoring the coronavirus situation closely, and have found some comfort from the increasing extensive efforts of China and other nations to contain its spread. Equity markets on Wall Street yesterday, and Asian bourses today, have managed to post gains, though investors are likely to remain cautious, with the net two weeks likely to be telling with regard to how bad things may or may not get. USD-JPY posted a two-day high at 109.26, up from the three-week low that was seen on Monday at 108.73.



[GBP, USD]

Sterling, which had been under pressure this week into tomorrow's BoE monetary policy review, has found a footing. Cable settled above 1.3000, up from yesterday's nine-day low at 1.2975. UK rate markets are discounting about 50-50 odds for the BoE to cut the repo rate by 25 bp at its policy review this Thursday. We don't expect the BoE to cut, and therefore anticipate some scope for a rebound in the pound. Our view is that the majority of the nine member Monetary Policy Committee will want to refrain from easing amid signs of a post-election rebound in economic activity, as evidenced by a much stronger than expected rebound in preliminary PMI and CBI industrial trends January survey data. We still expect dissension in the MPC ranks, with Saunders and Haskell seen repeating their call (for what will be a third successive meeting) for a 25 bp cut in the repo rate, to 0.50%, and possibly joined by their dovish MPC colleague Vlieghe. A vote for unchanged policy would leave the repo rate at 0.75%. Brexit will happen in the legal sense at midnight on Friday, though not a lot will change in practical terms as the UK will remain in the single market and customs union through to the end of 2020. Note that U.S. Secretary of State Pompeo is in London today, while Prime Minister Johnson will be visiting President Trump next week to start negotiations on a post-Brexit trade deal. There may be some tensions following the decision by the UK to allow China's Huawei to participate in building 5G infrastructure, although Huawei's role will be limited and won't included in security-sensitive areas.



[USD, CHF]

USD-CHF has edged out a 19-day high, while EUR-CHF has printed an eight-day peak at 1.0732, up from the 33-month low seen yesterday at 1.0665, amid a paring back in risk-off positioning. Markets are monitoring the coronavirus situation closely, and have found some comfort from the increasing extensive efforts of China and other nations to contain its spread, though investors are likely to remain cautious, with the net two weeks likely to be telling with regard to how bad things may or may not get. The franc had already rallied strongly earlier in the month following the surprising decision by the U.S. to add Switzerland to its list of currency manipulators earlier in the week. The U.S. move seems a bit rich given the franc is a demonstrably chronically-overvalued currency in purchasing parity terms (as illustrated by the Economist's Big Mac index), though the Trump administration argues that Switzerland needs a more expansive fiscal policy.



[USD, CAD]

USD-CAD settled in the mid 1.3100s after rallying by more than 1% over the last week, which yesterday left a near seven-week high at 1.3204. Oil prices are up over 3% from the trend lows that were seen on Monday, which has helped the Canadian dollar find a footing.