Will I get a refund if my flight is cancelled because of coronavirus? 
 The rapid spread of coronavirus has prompted British Airways (BA) to suspend all mainland China flights for the foreseeable future.

The virus has now caused 132 deaths in China and confirmed infections have risen to nearly 6,000.

It has now spread to Europe, with cases confirmed in Germany and France, while scores more have been infected in other countries, including the United States, Australia, Thailand, Hong Kong, Thailand, Malaysia, United Arab Emirates, and South Korea.

On Tuesday, the government warned UK residents against travelling to mainland China while the virus continues to spread.

So, what can you do if your travel plans have been disrupted due to the virus, and can you get a refund?

BA appears to be the only UK airline to have completely pulled bookings from their website.

If you’re booked onto a flight with them and are scheduled to fly between 26 January – 23 February, you can request a refund.

In order to do this, get in touch with them directly through the BA website.

They also offer the option to rebook to the same destination, although it is not known when flights to mainland China will resume.

While Virgin Atlantic are still running flights to China, they are also offering passengers the options of either rebooking their flights, changing their travel destination or requesting a full refund.

If you choose to rebook your travel, it must be done no later than 31 March.

Despite many airlines offering full refunds, there is no legal obligation for them to do so, so it is advised you get in touch with your provider directly.

If you decide to travel to China against the government’s advice, be aware that your travel insurance is at risk of being invalidated.

Once again, it’s recommended you get in touch with your insurance company directly.

MORE: Deadline passes for UK residents to register to leave China as coronavirus death toll reaches 132

MORE: China opens 1,000-bed coronavirus hospital after just 48 hours of construction