British Airways Halts China Flights As Coronavirus Spreads 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	The airline apologised and said the safety of passengers and crew were their priority
NurPhoto via Getty ImagesTopline: British Airways has suspended its flights to mainland China with immediate effect, amid an outbreak of a pneumonia-like virus that that has prompted several governments to advice against non-essential travel to China.
The British airline suspended all direct flights into and out of mainland China. BA operates flights to Shanghai and Beijing, as well as Hong Kong, although flights to the latter are still scheduled.
BA said in an email: “We have temporarily suspended all flights to and from mainland China with immediate effect following advice from the Foreign Office against all but essential travel. We apologise to customers for the inconvenience, but the safety of our customers and crew is always our priority.”
It follows British Foreign Office advice to avoid all but essential travel to China, which is at the centre of a coronavirus outbreak that has killed at least 132 people and infected 6,000. A handful of cases have been reported in 16 other countries across Asia, Europe, North America and now the UAE.
Britain, the U.S., Japan and Australia are among countries that are evacuating their citizens from Wuhan, the central Chinese city at the heart of the outbreak. Some 300 U.K. citizens are thought to be located in the region.
Hong Kong’s flagship carrier Cathay Pacific, United Airlines and other regional airlines have cancelled some flights, but have stopped short of outright suspension. 

Key background: The new coronavirus appears to be less deadly than the outbreak of SARS 18 years ago, but more contagious. China has enforced strict travel limits during the bustling Lunar New Year period and restricted millions of people from leaving a number of cities in Hubei province. On Tuesday, Hong Kong announced it would suspend all rail and ferry travel to and from mainland China, while it has been turning away Wuhan residents at the border. International companies with offices in china have advised their employees to work from home, while chains such as Starbucks and McDonalds have shuttered stores in regions impacted by the outbreak.
Tangent: Scientists in Australia say they have recreated the coronavirus in a lab in Melbourne. It is hoped that the breakthrough can help to develop treatments for the coronavirus.
Meanwhile Australian citizens who are being evacuated from Wuhan will be quarantined on Christmas Island, which is closer to Indonesia than the Australian mainland. The incubation period for the illness has been contested, but the World Health Organization estimates it to be 2 to 10 days. Individuals may be infectious even if they do not feel ill.