Coronavirus: Brit trapped in Wuhan forced to leave wife behind as rescue flights FINALLY start tomorrow 
 A BRIT trapped in the centre of the coronavirus outbreak has told of his "worst nightmare" at having to leave his wife behind - as rescue flights finally start tomorrow to bring people back from Wuhan.

Jeff Siddle, 54, from Prudhoe, Northumberland, travelled to the Hubei province with wife Sindy, 42, and their nine-year-old daughter Jasmine to spend Chinese new year with her family in the village of Hongtu.

The UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office have told Jeff that since Sindy has a Chinese passport, she will not be allowed to board the plane evacuating British nationals from Wuhan.

Sindy has had a visa for permanent residency in the UK since 2008.

Fears over the spread of the flu-like virus, which originated in Wuhan, are growing as the death toll rose to 132 and countries warned their citizens over travel to China.

Health authorities reported the number of confirmed cases had jumped by 1,459 to 5,974. The epidemic has revived memories of the SARS outbreak that originated in China and killed nearly 800 as it spread around the world in 2002 and 2003.

Jeff, 54, an IT software developer, said there were no health warnings in place when they flew out on January 15.

He told the Guardian: "My head is spinning. It's just horrendous.

"This ordeal just turned into our worst nightmare. How can they put a family in this position? Having to leave Sindy in China would be the worst thing that anyone could be put through.

"How am I going to tell Jasmine that her mum has to stay behind?"

Speaking to the BBC, Jeff said: "The Foreign Office has said they will be doing an airlift, probably tomorrow, but only for British citizens.

"The Chinese authorities are not allowing any Chinese residents to leave. I had to either leave my wife here in China or the three of us stay [here]. We're going to have a nine-year-old child separated from her mother. Who knows how long that's going to be?

"My daughter has been in floods of tears, she's devastated. My wife is trying to keep strong but is absolutely distraught. It was an awful decision.

"The Foreign Office has said we have got to make our own way to Wuhan airport. We're a 3 hour drive away, but the roads are all on lockdown as well.

"We've called the local Chinese office to get some details but they're saying the only way we can get a car through is if we have a special diplomatic note, so I've phoned the Foreign Office and asked for that but they said they can't do it. So that's put another stress on top of everything.

"I feel really isolated. I can't speak any Chinese. I also feel the British government have been much slower to react than many other countries, like America, France and Japan. They seem to have been more proactive and have plans in place to get their citizens out."

A Downing Street spokesman said: "The Foreign Office is urgently exploring options for British nationals to leave Hubei province. Details are being finalised, and the FCO will confirm these as soon as they can."

The FCO advised Brits in Hubei to ring one of two dedicated 24-hour telephone numbers before 11am today to register their desire to be evacuated.