Scientists grow coronavirus in lab sparking hope for a cure 
 Scientists studying the coronavirus outbreak have made a breakthrough which could pave the way for the development of a vaccine against the deadly illness.

Researchers from the Doherty Institute in Melbourne, Australia, have grown a strain of the pneumonia-like disease which will allow for accurate investigation and diagnosis of the virus globally.

The discovery will be shared with the World Health Organization (WHO) in the hope it may help efforts to diagnose and treat the virus, which has killed 132 people and infected nearly 6,000 others around the world.

Dr Julian Druce, head of the Virus Identification lab, hailed the development as a ‘game changer’.

He said: ‘Having the real virus means we now have the ability to actually validate and verify all test methods and compare their sensitivities and specificities.

‘The virus will be used as positive control material for the Australian network of public health laboratories, and also shipped to expert laboratories working closely with the World Health Organisation (WHO) in Europe.’

The coronavirus was grown from a patient sample that the Doherty Institute received on Friday.

Scientists will use it to generate an antibody test, which allows detection of the virus in patients who have not yet displayed any symptoms.

Chinese authorities have warned that the flu-like illness, which emanated in the city of Wuhan, is able to spread before there are signs a person is infected.

The crisis has led to large parts of the country being placed under quarantine, with flights and transport being grounded and Lunar New Year celebrations being cancelled as part of sweeping attempts to stop it spreading.

Heath experts have previously said developing a vaccine could take months as little was known about the novel disease.

However,  Deputy Director of the Doherty Institute, Dr Mike Catton, said researchers had been planning for an incident like this for years and were able to act fast.

He said: ‘An antibody test will enable us to retrospectively test suspected patients so we can gather a more accurate picture of how widespread the virus is, and consequently, among other things, the true mortality rate.

‘It will also assist in the assessment of effectiveness of trial vaccines.

‘We’ve planned for an incident like this for many, many years and that’s really why we were able to get an answer so quickly.’