British Airway halts flights to Beijing and Shanghai as coronavirus spreads 
 British Airways will be suspending all flights to mainland China with immediate effect as the deadly coronavirus continues to spread.

The airline will be halting all routes to the country including Beijing and Shanghai until March following advice from the Foreign Office.

The Foreign Office warned Brits against "all but essential travel" to mainland China yesterday and the government will be evacuating UK citizens from Wuhan tomorrow.

BA is expected to make a formal announcement about the decision later on today in London.

In a statement, British Airways said: "We have suspended all flights to and from mainland China with immediate effect following advice from the Foreign Office against all but essential travel.

"We apologise to customers for the inconvenience, but the safety of our customers and crew is always our priority.

"Customers due to travel to or from China in the coming days can find more information on ba.com."

China has confirmed 5,974 cases of the virus as the death toll jumped to 132.

China has confirmed 5,974 cases of the virus as the death toll jumped to 132 with the city of Wuhan of about 60 million people in lockdown.

Outside China, Thailand is the country most affected by the disease with a total of 14 confirmed cases inside the country.

The Thai Prime Minister had initially said the country would be able to control the spread of the disease but the Public Health Minister disputed this yesterday.

Anutin Charnvirakul told Sky News: "We are not able to stop the spread.

"Our target is we will be able to detect all carriers entering Thailand and we will apply necessary measures as the situation develops.

"Of course we expect more people to get sick but we are able to identify all of them."

Cases have been confirmed in Germany and France with testing underway in the United Kingdom and Spain.

Cambodia, Sri Lanka, Germany, Vietnam, United States of America, Thailand, Taiwan, Singapore, Rubpublic of Korea, Nepal, Malaysia, Japan, France, Canada, Australia have all confirmed cases of the disease.

Despite mounting concerns the World Health Organization has said it's confident in China's ability to contain the coronavirus.

The source of the infection is unknown but it has been rumoured to of come from an animal market in Wuhan.