Chinese store fined for price- gouging on protective masks as coronavirus grips the nation 
 Chinese authorities have cracked down on price-gouging vendors who have been charging up to six times the regular amount for protective masks as the country deals with the coronavirus outbreak.

One store in the Chinese capital will be fined 3 million yuan ($639,850) for hiking the price of masks by almost six times the online rate amid the virus outbreak, the Beijing municipal market regulator said on Wednesday.

The outbreak, which started in the central city of Wuhan late last year, has killed over 120 people, with over 4,000 infected in China.

An administrative penalty notice has been issued to the Beijing Jimin Kangtai Pharmacy for sharply raising the price of N95 masks, the regulator said in a statement on its website.

The store raised the price of a box of 3M-brand masks to 850 yuan ($181) while the online price was just 143 yuan ($30), state television said.

Since Thursday, the regulator has investigated 31 price violation cases as it boosted supervision of prices of protective gear and punished illegal activities, such as hoarding or fabricating information about price hikes.

In the commercial capital of Shanghai, the municipal market regulator has also ordered the closure of a drug store that sold sub-standard masks, according to the city government.

Queues for masks are growing outside stores but those who are looking to buy them are concerned for their own health due to fears of coming into contact with someone suffering from coronavirus.

There had also been rumours of food shortages but supermarkets in Shanghai showed a good supply of fruits, eggs and vegetables.

That news comes as Hubei province and the city of Wuhan continue to be in lockdown to avoid further spread of the virus, although both Japan and the United States had managed to evacuate their citizens from the area.

It was not immediately known whether they were infected because coronavirus symptoms, including cough and fever and in severe cases pneumonia, are similar to many other illnesses.

The Morrison Government said on Wednesday they would evacuate hundreds of Australians who were stuck in Wuhan, albeit by Christmas Island, where they would be quarantined before they were cleared to return to Australia.

That news came as Victoria confirmed a second case of the potentially deadly disease, taking the total confirmed cases in Australia to six.