Wuhan coronavirus has killed over 100 people. Here are all the countries warning against travel to China. 
 More than 100 people have died from a coronavirus outbreak that started in Wuhan, China, and over 4,500 people have been infected worldwide.

As the outbreak has spread, China has moved to stop people leaving and entering cities linked to the disease.

Last Thursday morning, authorities in Wuhan shut down the city's public transportation, including buses, trains, ferries, and the airport.

As of Tuesday local time, 14 cities in Hubei province are locked down, accounting for a population of over 50 million people. Several media outlets estimate the number of people locked down at 56 million.

The effects of the shutdown have been widespread: Several large foreign and Chinese corporations, including McDonald's, Ikea, and French carmakers Peugeot Citroen and Renault are temporarily shutting down operations and evacuating employees from the area.

And several countries, including the US, UK, and Canada, have warned against all nonessential travel to China and Hubei province as the virus continues to spread around the world.

Here are the countries and agencies warning against travel to China:

The US State Department on Monday raised the alert level to three for travel to China and is advising passengers to "reconsider travel to China" because of increased risk.

The department also raised the alert level for travel to Hubei province to the highest level four.

US Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)

The CDC on Monday recommended that people avoid all "nonessential travel" to China because of the disease and raised its alert to a level three.

Canada's government on Monday warned citizens to avoid all travel to Hubei, including the cities of Wuhan, Huanggang, and Ezhou.

The UK's Foreign and Commonwealth Office on Monday advised against all travel to Hubei Province, and told those in the region to leave.

"If you're in this area and able to leave, you should do so," it said.