Japan-assisted testing of nCoV patients can yield results in 48 hours–DOH 
 MANILA, Philippines – The Department of Health (DOH) has assured the public that they are now capable of confirming whether patients are carrying the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019 n-CoV), through the help of the Japanese government.

Health Secretary Francisco Duque III said during the House of Representatives’ question hour on Wednesday that the Japanese counterpart of the Research Institute for Tropical Medicine (RITM) has brought ribonucleic acid (RNA) primers which would help authorities detect the n-CoV as expeditiously as possible.

Prior to Japan’s assistance, specimens from the patients suspected of carrying coronavirus were sent out to the Victorian Infectious Disease Reference in Melbourne, Australia, where laboratory procedures are performed — taking several days before confirmation.

“The Japanese counterpart of the RITM today has just brought with them the team, an RNA primer to help us identify whether the novel coronavirus suspect cases once there are throat swabs, their nasal pharyngal swabs are submitted to RITM for testing,” Duque said.

“With the RNA primer, in about 48 hours, we shall be able to set up our own capability to detect novel coronavirus, and no longer need to send confirmatory testing to Melbourne, Australia,” he added.

As of now, there are 27 patients being monitored by DOH for possible infection from the 2019 n-CoV — most of which are from China where the virus originated.

Earlier, the DOH confirmed that the 29-year-old Chinese national confined at the San Lazaro Hospital for coronavirus monitoring had died of pneumonia.  However, Duque also clarified that the patient, although his symptoms were similar to those being experienced by n-CoV patients, had HIV.

The 2019 n-CoV originated in Wuhan, China, with more than 6,000 individuals in mainland China affected and more than 130 people already dead.  This has forced Wuhan City to stop outbound train trips and flights, with other countries including the Philippines considering the repatriation of their citizens from the infected city.