Daily Briefing: An Apple a day... 
 LONDON (Reuters) - World markets have stabilised after Monday’s plunge and look set for a second day of gains on Wednesday, after more sober assessments of the economic impact of the Chinese virus, robust U.S. consumer confidence readings and upbeat results from Apple. 
FILE PHOTO: People wear face masks as they listen to a presentation in an Apple Store in the Sanlitun shopping district in Beijing as China is hit by an outbreak of the new coronavirus, January 25, 2020.  REUTERS/Thomas Peter


Wall Street’s SP 500 rallied more than 1% on Tuesday as volatility gauges subsided close to 16%. The Treasury yield curve between three months and 10 years rose above 5 basis points after a momentary inversion and U.S. stock futures were higher again early Wednesday. 
European stocks recovered almost 1% on Tuesday and point to another positive open. Safety plays in gold and Japan’s yen unwound on Tuesday, though both prices are up first thing today. 
Brent crude oil prices jumped back above $60 per barrel after reports OPEC wants to extend oil production cuts until at least June from March, and may make the reductions bigger if China's oil demand drops. 
Shanghai markets remain closed until next week and the re-opening of Hong Kong on Wednesday saw the Hang Seng lose 2.7%. But Japan’s Nikkei, Seoul’s Kospi and even China’s offshore yuan were higher. 
The attention on the virus and its spread remains. But there’s more confidence it can be contained. The fatality rate remains relatively low and reports say a vaccine is imminent. 
Estimates of the direct longer-term economic impact were relatively modest - akin to similar health scares over the past 20 years. ING estimates Chinese GDP growth will be 0.3 percentage points lower at 5.6% in 2020. 
Impacts on regional and world tourism, airlines and retail sales are expected to be sizeable but temporary. British Airways, for example, on Wednesday said it would suspend all flights to mainland China until further notice. 
With the U.S. Federal Reserve expected to keep policy unchanged later on Wednesday, U.S. economic sentiment remains high. Consumer confidence rose to a five-month high this month, according to the Conference Board’s monthly survey. 
Apple rose almost 3% during the trading session and added 2% after hours when it reported sales and profits for the holiday shopping quarter exceeded expectations. IPhone sales rose demand soared for add-ons like AirPods wireless headphones. Apple suppliers are expected to get boost in Europe today as a result. Microsoft, Facebook and Boeing all report later. 
The dollar strengthened, with sterling struggling to remain over $1.30 after sliding below that on Tuesday amid speculation the Bank of England will cut UK interest rates when it meets tomorrow. 
In European corporate news, British Airways owner IAG rose 0.6% even after it suspended all direct flights to and from mainland China. Wizz Air gained 0.2% after it upgraded its annual results. LVMH was up 0.4% despite concerns about Chinese demand. 
Italy’s Salvatore Ferragamo rose 1% after it met its earnings guidance. Apple’s results are likely to boost its European suppliers, such as Dialog Semiconductor, STMicro, ASML or AMS. 
Finland’s Elisa, Norway's Telenor and Sweden’s Telia all reported upbeat earnings. Vodafone agreed to sell its 55% stake in its Egyptian unit for $2.4 billion. Sweden’s SEB and Spain’s Santander reported better-than-expected profits. 
— A look at the day ahead from EMEA markets editor Mike Dolan. The views expressed are his own —