Wuhan virus: NEA sets up interim guidelines for cleaning and disinfection 
 People queue to purchase protective face masks, sanitisers and thermometers at a pharmacy in Singapore. (PHOTO: Roslan Rahman/AFP via Getty Images)

SINGAPORE — The National Environment Agency (NEA) has set up interim guidelines for non-healthcare premises and residential units to carry out cleaning and disinfection operations for areas exposed to confirmed cases of the Wuhan coronavirus infection.

In a media statement released on Wednesday (29 January), NEA said that the interim guidelines outline details such as:

These guidelines are set up in consultation with the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the National Centre for Infectious Diseases. They are developed and tailored according to the type of premises, so that residents and owners are able to carry out cleaning and disinfection operations on their own.

As the transmission dynamics for the Wuhan virus have yet to be fully determined, such guidelines are interim in nature, and will be updated as more is known.

For hotels where confirmed cases of the Wuhan virus infection were reported, NEA has also provided contacts and helped liaise with cleaning companies that provide disinfection services.

NEA has also disseminated sanitation and hygiene advisories to hotels, public and private transport operators, and food and beverage outlets, including hawker centres – premises and facilities with high public access.

It has also strongly encouraged hotels and public and private transport operators to step up their cleaning standards, and implement measures to upkeep good public health hygiene.

NEA has urged collective efforts and cooperations from all parties, so as to help ensure the safety of occupants and visitors coming through their premises.

The public are also encourage to adopt good habits of public hygiene. They include:

The public may refer to the NEA website link for more information on the interim guidelines. For queries, they may contact NEA at the 24-hour hotline at 1800-2255632.

Wuhan virus: Scoot cancels all Wuhan flights until end of March

Wuhan virus: MOM to reject new work applications of workers from Hubei

Wuhan virus: Singapore to bar new visitors with travel history to Hubei in last 14 days

Wuhan virus: 2 petitions in Singapore calling to ban travellers from China making rounds

Wuhan coronavirus in numbers: How it's spreading worldwide