Coronavirus crisis: Evacuation flight diverted to US airbase as airlift gets underway 
 The chartered flight evacuating 240 consulate staff, conractors and private citizens from Wuhan was originally scheduled to land, in Ontario, California, just outside of Los Angeles. But the flight crew were ordered to divert to the March Air Reserve Base in Riverside County, California, about 30 miles from its planned destination. No explanation about the diversion has been given.

The US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) made the announcement last night after informing Californian officials about the last minute change of plan.
The plane had stopped to refuel in Anchorage, Alaska, on its way from China.
San Bernardino County Supervisor Curt Hagman said: “The CDC just let us know the flight will be directed to March Air Force Base. We were prepared for the worst.”

All US nationals aboard the plane were screened for flu-like symptoms at the airport in China prior to departure and will be subject to additional screening, observation and monitoring requirements by the CDC on their return.
The passengers will be quarantined for at least three days and monitored by the CDC medics. Any who show signs of the illness and need to be tested could be held for as many as 14 days.
The US State Department updated its travel advisory for China on Monday and us urging Americans to “reconsider travel” to mainland China and “do not travel” for Hubei province.
BREAKING NEWS: Coronavirus: British Airways grounds all flights to China 

US officials said the White House was considering suspending all flights to China in what would be a drastic measure to control the spread of the disease.
US Health Secretary Alex Azar said: “All options for dealing with infectious disease spread have to be on the table, including travel restrictions.”
The White House is holding daily meetings on the outbreak and monitoring China-US flights as a likely source of infections though it had decided against suspending air traffic for the time being.

British Airways has grounded all flights in and out of China after Foreign Office officials advised against all travel to China.
The World Health Organization (WHO) has said it is confident in China’s ability to contain the coronavirus, but concern is mounting as health authorities reported the number of confirmed cases had jumped by 1,459 to 5,974.
The number of deaths from the flu-like virus rose by 26 to 132, almost all in the province of Hubei, the capital of which is Wuhan, the city where the virus emerged last month in a wild animal market.
DON'T MISS
Coronavirus mapped: How ready is the UK for an epidemic?[MAP]
Coronavirus latest: Is UK prepared for an outbreak in new diseases?[SPOTLIGHT]
Coronavirus UK news: What is UK Foreign Office's China travel warning?[FOCUS]

The central province of about 60 million people is under virtual lockdown.
Japan has repatriated 206 citizens with more flights planned and the UK Government is finalising plans to airlift Brits to safety.