Robredo: Suspension of flights in affected countries may be needed to contain nCoV 
 MANILA, Philippines – Vice President Leni Robredo has urged the government to exhaust all possible measures to avoid the spread of the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV), saying that flights from affected countries may even be suspended if necessary. Robredo on Wednesday said that instead of designating an airport-to-airport system where a certain airport serves as a point of entry for people coming from places with nCoV, the government should consider placing more precautionary equipment. “Ako, mas mabuti sanang i-aspire iyong hindi na kailangang mag-A2A [airport-to-airport]. Kailangan sigurong i-aspire na bago pa man lumipad dito, iyong necessary precautions gagawin na doon sa dapat panggalingan,” the Vice President, who was in Bukidnon for her anti-poverty program, told reporters. Sex on the menu for Pogo workers Virus outbreak death toll in mainland China rises to 132, cases increase to 6K

According to Robredo, the A2A system is one remedy but at the same time would also be costly. “Pero, ‘yong airport-to-airport, puwede siyang remedy, pero hindi siya… parang hindi siya nangangailangan na ganoon all the time, kasi it will involve a lot of money, na puwede namang maiwasan iyong gastos,” she added.

Entry points within the country are now under heavy scrutiny due to the spread of the 2019-nCoV in mainland China.  The virus, which originated in Wuhan, has forced city officials to shut down the city’s outbound trips and flights. As of now, more than 6,000 individuals have been affected by the virus, while 132 have died due to the ailment.  Fears that the 2019-nCoV has reached the country have been circulating in social media, but the Department of Health (DOH) assured that there is no reported case as of now, although 27 persons are being monitored. Earlier, a patient being investigated by DOH for possible coronavirus infection died of pneumonia, but Health Secretary Francisco Duque said that the dead patient also tested positive for HIV/AIDS.