Apple Set to Open at Record High as Analysts Laud ‘Blow Out’ Results 
 © Reuters.  Apple Set to Open at Record High as Analysts Laud ‘Blow Out’ Results
        
    
    

        (Bloomberg) -- Apple’s first-quarter  spurred optimism among analysts that demand for the tech giant’s iPhones will endure, especially as the company is said to be preparing to launch a new low-cost model and a 5G-enabled device later this year.

Analysts were particularly positive on growth in China, as well as the outlook for the second quarter, even as the performance of the services division disappointed. Analysts at Cowen also cautioned of the potential impact of the coronavirus outbreak on demand in the all-important Asian region.

The shares rose 2.2% in the U.S. pre-market and are poised to open at a record high. Apple (NASDAQ:) stock has gained this year as analysts have become increasingly positive on the potential boost from 5G iPhone upgrades.

RBC, Robert Muller

(Outperform, price target raised to $358 from $330)

“A lot to like,” with growth in China following four quarters of year-on-year declines. While service revenue was slightly below consensus, it still grew at an “impressive” 17% rate.

Notes 75% of Watch purchases were new customers, which should further lock customers in the ecosystem and thus be positive for future iPhone sales.

Report more than justified renewed optimism surrounding the core iPhone business with results “well ahead” of expectations ahead of the start of a potential 5G super cycle.

 Morgan Stanley  (NYSE:), Katy Huberty

(Overweight, price target $368)

Second-quarter gross profit guidance is 5.5% above consensus, the biggest delta since the March 2011 quarter, and the fourth quarter in a row of better gross profit guidance.

Strong iPhone demand to continue as Apple expands price points with a lower-priced iPhone launching in March and 5G in September.

Services slowdown is not a structural concern, and likely explained by year-on-year declines in the amortization of the deferred value of Maps, Siri and iCloud services.

Wedbush, Dan Ives

(Outperform, price target $400)

A “blow out print” that will “put more high octane fuel in the bull thesis,” as iPhone 11 strength continues both domestically and internationally, with China a “clear star of the show.”

Main highlight is second-quarter guidance of $63.0 billion to $67.0 billion versus consensus $62.5 billion, amid pent-up demand within the installed iPhone base.

“A major feather in the cap for the bulls that should drive the stock higher over the coming weeks and months.”

Cowen, Krish Sankar

(Outperform, price target raised to $370 from $350)

IPhone growth was driven by the model 11 product cycle and the trade-in and financing programs that are now available in more regions, while the 5G cycle could drive 2020/21 units back above 200 million.

Greatest near-term risk is the impact of the coronavirus on daily life in China. App store activity will be a key metric to monitor in coming months.

Cash flow was impressive, near a five-year high, leaving ample room after shareholder returns to invest in future growth.