Worried Their Parents Are Taking Coronavirus Lightly, Chinese Millennials Turn To Cops For Help 
 The Coronavirus or the 2019-nCoV infection currently spreading through China and beyond has proven to be deadly with a staggering 4,559 confirmed cases and 106 people declared dead. 
The government has quarantined 50 million people in central China and the lockdown has expanded to 17 cities. 
 Reuters 
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the “reported illnesses have ranged from infected people with little to no symptoms to people being severely ill and dying. Symptoms can include fever, cough, and shortness of breath.”

While people in China and across the world are bracing themselves with masks and plastic suits to not contract the infection, there are some who don't seem to care too much and it's the older generation in China. 
In the digital world, it's the Chinese millennials who are expressing panic and frustration over their parents taking the outbreak too lightly. 
   According to Netizens on Chinese social media website Weibo, many from the older generation get their information from mainstream media, which is often flawed and fabricated. 
In fact, according to some Weibo users, some parents are saying that the whole situation has just been blown out of proportion. 
Some children literally locked their parents at home. “I can’t persuade them to wear face masks anymore. In order to convince my mum not to leave the house, I wracked my brains and this is all I’ve got. Bicycle locks are useful,” shared one Weibo user.

 Twitter
Several other netizens also revealed that they had called the cops. According to the Sichuan Observer, a local woman called the cops on her parents after they went out to a teahouse to gamble. 

Another user shared just how difficult it was to reason with their 'stubborn adults' writing, 'I didn’t allow my dad to go out to play cards, and now he is angry and locked himself in his room, not eating or drinking for almost a day. It's very difficult.'


 Reuters
Amid parents who refuse to accept the spread of Coronavirus, there are young people on Chinese social media doing their best to spread precautionary measures and urging people to stay home. 
According to reports, no one outside China has died, but both Germany and Japan on Tuesday confirmed cases of human-to-human transmission of the disease.
Health authorities and scientists say the same precautions against other viral illnesses can be used: wash your hands frequently, cover up your coughs, try not to touch your face.