Brits airlifted from coronavirus epicentre 'to be quarantined in military base' 
 Brits airlifted out of the region of China at the centre of the coronavirus outbreak could be quarantined in a military base for two weeks.

Secure facilities are understood to be being considered by the UK Government as it ratchets up plans for the arrival from Wuhan of around 200 expats.

The Mirror understands that even those not displaying symptoms will be detained for 14 days - thought to be the maximum possible incubation period for the coronavirus.

Urgent plans to get the Britons out of the province of Hubei, which contains Wuhan, are being finalised with an evacuation thought to be imminent.

Are you a Brit in China? Have you been affected by the outbreak? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.

The deadline for those stuck in the city of Wuhan and surrounding areas to contact the British consulate expressing their wish to leave passed at 3am UK time (11am local time) on Tuesday.

Flights taking Britons back home could begin as early as Thursday, according to a British teacher in Wuhan city who said UK citizens were being given details of forthcoming flights.

Nick House, a British national living in Wuhan with his Indonesian wife and two British children, said: “We would like to be out of here.

“The man on the other end of the phone said ‘Yes, you are on the list, but unfortunately your wife probably won’t be able to get on the plane because she doesn’t have a visa at the moment’.

“I won’t leave without my wife, so essentially the Government are leaving three British people here for the sake of one seat on a plane.”

In Australia, officials unveiled plans to evacuate some of its nationals from Wuhan and the surrounding Hubei province, with plans to quarantine them in the Christmas Island immigration detention centre for the potential incubation period for the virus.

A US charter plane carrying about 240 consular staff and citizens departed Wuhan and landed at the airport in Anchorage, Alaska, where they were re-screened for the virus in an isolated area before reboarding for a flight to a military base in California.

A dormant hangar was being prepared for arrival and CNN reported that the evacuees might have to stay in isolation in the hangar for up to two weeks.

The Japanese government says it has evacuated some of its citizens.

The UK Government had initially planned to instruct those evacuated from Wuhan to go home and “self isolate” but the suggestion now is that they could be forcible quarantined.

A British lecturer stranded in Wuhan city, who described the streets as “deserted”, said UK officials have confirmed that a flight will take citizens back to England but it is not known when.

Yvonne Griffiths said she received news in the early hours of Wednesday morning that there is to be a flight from Wuhan airport to England.

She told BBC Breakfast that Stansted is a possible destination, but that has not been confirmed and timings not been firmed up either.

“And we’ve to be on stand-by so that we can go to the airport very early,” she said.

“We’ve to be there six to seven hours before the flight leaves, and we would have a screening from some health people here in Wuhan, and if we are not showing any symptoms then we’ll be able to board that plane.

“If we were to be suffering temperature or any other symptoms, breathing problems, then there seems to be a possibility of quarantining at this end.”

The lecturer told the programme: “It has been frustrating up until today. I think the lack of certainty about the time of this flight isn’t so worrying as long as we know that it’s going to happen.

“Prior to that, we had quite a long period of silence from the UK Government about whether there was going to be any contingency plan to get people home.”