Indian Govt's Homeopathy And Unani Safety Tips On Wuhan Coronavirus Is Making People Angry 
 Coronavirus is spreading rapidly across the world, affecting over 4000 people and claiming over 100 lives globally.  Even people who’ve never travelled to China are getting infected now. 

Looking at the severity of the situation, Indian authorities have released a dossier with a set of guidelines for the citizens of the nation to be safe from this novel coronavirus.
 Twitter:@PIB_India
The guidelines were shared by PIB on Twitter. Some of the guidelines include really basic safety tips like washing hands for at least 20 seconds. Avoid touching hands to eyes, nose mouth with unwashed hands, Avoiding close contact with people etc. However, this was just the beginning.

The list also suggests a set of Ayurvedic Practices to stay safe from the coronavirus. One of them includes the drinking of ‘Shadang Paniya’ processed water.
 It has also suggested a set of immunomodulatory (immunity-enhancing) drugs like Agastya Harityaki of 5gms and Samshamani Vati of 500mg twice in a day with warm water, among others. Even an Indian doctor claims to cure Wuhan Coronavirus within 48 hours with his ayurvedic medicine.
In case this wasn’t enough, the guidelines also suggest Homeopathy and Unani medicines to boost immunity and allegedly improve the chance of not contracting the coronavirus. 
While suggesting basic preventative habits and ayurvedic meds was fine, the suggestion of Homeopathy and Unani precaution tips does raise major concerns as many also term it as pseudoscience as there is no concrete evidence suggesting its efficacy. Many people on the internet too reacted in a similar fashion, after reading these guidelines.



Coronaviruses cause pneumonia-like symptoms among people. People with stronger immunity have better chances of recovering from this disease instantly whereas to people with poorer immunity -- young and old -- can cause serious respiratory diseases.
There is no particular vaccine or medicine that can save you from contracting Wuhan Virus. In most cases, the symptoms disappear on their own. Symptoms can be eased a little by doctors prescribing fever or pain medication.