Which countries have coronavirus and where is safe to travel to? 
 The fatal coronavirus outbreak continues to spread, with the UK Foreign Office now warning Britons to avoid travel to mainland China as the total death toll hits 132.

Precautionary measures are being speedily put into place, as British Airways halts flights to China, while Wuhan remains on lockdown.

So far, more than 100 people have been tested in the UK, but all tests have come back as negative.

Where has the virus spread to, and where should you avoid travelling?

According to Public Health England – via their last update on 28 January – 18 countries have reported an instance of the virus.

The numbers (outside of China) are as follows:

Their website also states the number of cases in China at 4,515 – but by today, the number of people infected by coronavirus is nearer 6,000.

So far, 132 people have died from coronavirus, 26 of which were recorded in the last 24 hours.

The government has advised against all but essential travel to mainland China and advised against all travel to the Hubei Province.

Their website states: ‘The FCO advise against all but essential travel to the rest of mainland China (not including Hong Kong and Macao). The Chinese government continue to impose further restrictions on movement within China in response to the coronavirus outbreak. It may become harder over the coming weeks for those who wish to leave China to do so.’

Many airlines are offering flight refunds for those wanting to cancel their trips to China.

There are no specific travel warnings for the other countries impacted by the virus, although the FCO states you should ‘comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the local authorities.’

These vary from place to place, so check the government’s website for the latest travel advice and for any local restrictions.

From 30 January, authorities in Hong Kong are suspending or scaling back on all transport to and from mainland China in an attempt to curb the spread of the virus.

MORE: London is more at risk of coronavirus than any other city in Europe

MORE: Deadline passes for UK residents to register to leave China as coronavirus death toll reaches 132