Advice on staying safe from coronavirus – safest places to be and what to do 
 The Wuhan coronavirus, or novel coronavirus, is a new respiratory illness not previously seen in humans.

The viral infection, which originated in Wuhan, China, has now started to spread through the country and the rest of the world.

Now coronavirus has spread to countries such as the US, Australia, Japan, and several other countries.

Chinese officials ave confirmed almost 6,000 cases, with the death toll climbing to 132.

But so far coronavirus has not reached the UK, and the risk of being infected remains low.

According to the Department of Health and Social Care, 97 people have been tested for the illness – all of which have come back negative.

In order for coronavirus to say away from the UK, it’s important to be careful – especially when travelling.

There are things you yourself can do to avoid catching coronavirus.

Firstly, avoid contact with anyone showing symptoms of a respiratory illness, such as coughing and sneezing, says the World Health Organisation.

Also avoid touching your face before washing your hands. Remember to sneeze and couch into your arm instead of your hands.

Because coronavirus is believed to have started in animals and spread to humans, health officials also recommend cooking meat and eggs thoroughly.

The Foreign Office has recommended avoiding non-essential travel to China.

Adrian Hyzler, chief medical officer at Healix International, told Business Insider: “Travel spreads this kind of virus like wildfire.

“I think we’re going to see cases popping up in cities all over the world.”

If you’re travelling, whether it be to China or in general, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says to avoid animals, animal markets and products from animals.

On its website, it says: “Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and water are not available.”

Also, don’t travel while you’re sick. If you feel sick with fever, cough or have difficulty breathing, seek medical care straight away.

Many people have taken to wearing surgical masks, but whether it helps or not has been the subject of debate.

According to Eric Toner, a senior scientist at Johns Hopkins University, there is “little harm in it, but wearing masks, except in the situation of a healthcare provider, has never been shown to be a very effective way to protect yourself from infectious diseases.”

However, Dr David Carrington, of St George’s University of London, said while they are not “effective protection against viruses or bacteria carried in the air”, it can lower the risk of contracting the virus through the “splash” from a sneeze or cough.

For now, you are safe in the countries which have not had any cases of coronavirus yet.

In Europe there have only been four cases detected so far – three in France and one in Germany.

The best thing to do is to keep hygiene levels up, but be very careful when travelling.

Meanwhile, the government has issued a warning for those who have returned from Wuhan in the last 14 days.

They are urged to stay indoors and avoid contact with other people, and to call NHS 111 to inform them of their recent travel.