Chinese travel presenter apologises for eating bat amid coronavirus outbreak 
 A Chinese travel presenter has apologised after a video of her eating a bat went viral amid the coronavirus outbreak.

Wang Mengyun wrote online that she hadn’t been aware of the animal’s history with disease when she tucked into one in the 2017 clip.

She told her fans: ‘I had no idea during filming that there was such a virus. I only learned about it recently.

‘I didn’t know that bats are a primary carrier of viruses. I really did not check the information or explain its dangerous nature.’

The video of Ms Mengyun was filmed in Palau, an island in the western Pacific Ocean, not China, as many online have assumed.

The eating of bats has come under scrutiny since the outbreak of the coronavirus, as some scientific research indicates they can be carriers of severe acute respiratory syndromes.

According to one study, the new strain of coronavirus is 96% identical on a DNA level with the type of virus found in bats.

However bat soup is not commonplace in Wuhan, where the coronavirus is believed to have emerged from the Huanan Seafood Wholesales Market.

Authorities in China are still investigating the cause behind the outbreak.

In the now-viral video of Ms Mengyun, she can be seen holding a cooked bat up to the camera before tearing it apart.

She then tries a part of the animal’s wing, before stating that it contains ‘so many nutrients’ and tastes ‘like chicken meat’.

The presenter, who was previously selected as one of Forbes’ most successful Chinese entrepreneurs under the age of 30 by Forbes, said bat soup was a ‘common dish’ for locals.

She described the meal as ‘very delicious’ with a ‘fruity flavour’ during an episode of Dream Runner, her travel show.

More than 100 people have died of the coronavirus, while around 4,500 people are believed to be infected in China.

Other cases of the virus have been reported in Thailand, Japan, France, the US, Malaysia and Canada.

Today it was announced that British people returning to the UK from China would be put in quarantine for two weeks after it was announced around 200 people were being flown out of Wuhan.

Health Secretary Matt Hancock has instructed officials to isolate those returning for 14 days, adding that public safety is the ‘top priority’.

Those isolated will receive the appropriate medical attention.