How effective are face masks against coronavirus? 
 The coronavirus outbreak has sparked a global surge in the demand for face masks, but health experts have questioned how much protection they can actually offer.

Researchers believe the deadly virus jumped from animals to humans by breathing in tiny particles at a seafood market selling live animals in Wuhan.

The death toll in mainland China has since risen to 132 while nearly 6,000 people are infected, according to authorities.

Although it remains unclear exactly how the virus is spreading, millions have rushed to buy face masks to help guard against infection.

But Professor Mark Woolhouse, Professor of Infectious Disease Epidemiology at the University of Edinburgh, told New Scientist: ‘They might help, but it’s not clear they give you total protection.’

Eric Toner, of the Johns Hopkins University Center for Health Security, similarly suggested to Business Insider that there’s ‘little harm’ in wearing face masks.

But he added: ‘It’s not likely to be very effective in preventing it.’

The two main variants being stockpiled are standard surgical masks and N95 respirators.

Surgical masks are designed to block liquid droplets, thereby lowering the chances of catching the virus from another person.

World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines say healthcare workers treating patients should wear them, in addition to gloves, goggles and gowns.

They are thought to be more effective in a clinical setting, with the accompanying protective measures.

But the general population don’t have those, and are left especially vulnerable by the fact that the masks don’t completely seal off the wearer’s nose and mouth – meaning droplets can still get in – and leave the eyes exposed.

Some tiny particles can also simply pass through the fabric material.

Perhaps even more importantly – surgical masks are not designed to be used more than once.

The N95 respirators offer more protection by virtue of the fact that they are designed to guard the wearer’s nose and mouth area against 95 per cent of small particles.

But they too are only effective if fitted properly.

If they’re not, droplets can still get in. They also aren’t suitable for children or adults with facial hair, and can make it hard to breathe.

That is especially dangerous for anyone already showing symptoms including coughing and shortness of breath, as set out below.

Other protective measures being advised include avoiding large gatherings, with Lunar New Year celebrations scaled back, schools closed and transport hubs closed down.

Peter Collignon, an infectious diseases physician and microbiologist at Australia’s Canberra Hospital, suggested to Bloomberg that good hand hygiene maybe more effective than face masks at preventing transmission of coronavirus.