China’s ‘demon’ virus leaves health experts at odds on when infection rate will slow 
 Chinese President Xi Jinping called the pneumonia-like virus that has ravaged the city of Wuhan a “demon” that must be defeated, but some of the world’s leading infectious disease experts cannot agree on how long it will take to bring it under control.

One of China’s top experts said the Wuhan coronavirus infection rate could peak in early February.

“I estimate that it will reach its peak in around the next week or 10 days, after that there will be no more major increases,” said Zhong Nanshan, the respiratory disease scientist who played the pivotal role in China’s fight against the severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars) coronavirus epidemic in 2002-03.

He is also leading a team of experts to tackle the present outbreak and made the comments in an interview with state news agency Xinhua on Tuesday.

A total of 5,974 people are now confirmed to have contracted the current infection in mainland China, the health authorities said on Wednesday. That means the Wuhan-centered outbreak has now surpassed Sars, which infected 5,327 people in the mainland. Sars then went on to kill 774 people worldwide, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO).

The death toll from the Wuhan coronavirus has risen to 132 in China, the authorities said, with infections confirmed in 12 other countries. No deaths have so far been reported from the virus outside of China.

Beijing has imposed travel restrictions across the country, and as many as 14 city-wide lockdowns affecting tens of millions of people are in place to try to curb the spread of the virus.

While stating that it is very difficult to make predictions about the infection peak for the new virus, Zhong said China’s efforts in early detection and early isolation were the right measures. “After doing these two things, we have enough confidence to prevent another peak,” he said.

“Sars lasted for almost five or six months, but I don’t believe that the new coronavirus will be able to continue for that long,” said Zhong, now the director of the State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease in China.

Gabriel Leung, dean of Hong Kong University’s medical school, is in sharp disagreement on the potential infection rate for the Wuhan virus.

Leung is leading a team of experts using mathematical modelling to predict the spread based on available worldwide data. He said on Monday that his team’s research showed self-sustaining human-to-human transmission was already happening in all major mainland cities and warned that a pandemic might be close.

“We have to be prepared, that this particular epidemic may be about to become a global epidemic,” he said.

The outbreak was expected to peak in April or May in five major Chinese cities – Beijing, Shanghai, Chongqing, Shenzhen and Guangzhou – before the number of infections could begin to gradually decline in June or July, Leung said.

As many as 44,000 people could be infected in Wuhan alone, with only 25,000 likely to be showing symptoms at this time, said Leung, citing the team’s research.

He urged the Hong Kong government to take “substantial and draconian measures” to limit population mobility.

A growing number of countries and territories have denied entry to travellers from central Hubei province, where Wuhan is located. Hong Kong announced on Tuesday that it would suspend new visas for individual mainland tourists from Thursday, accounting for half of all cross-border visitors to the city.

However, the infection rate estimate by Zhong was echoed by Gao Fu, the director of the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention. He said he was “optimistic” that the outbreak’s “turning point” could arrive by February 8 if current disease control protocol is maintained.