The Agenda 
 MORNING LEAD


What’s next for Kaleida Health, now that Jody Lomeo has announced his resignation as CEO? Board members say that the ideal candidate for Lomeo’s job must understand the complexities of Kaleida and all of its affiliates and partnerships, but also of an evolving health-care sector. And he or she must be able to connect with the workforce.


            
            
        QUICK READ


Ellicott Development’s Our Lady of Lourdes complex is getting a new neighbor — a nine-story building containing the region’s first Marriott-affiliated Element Hotel. Ellicott Chairman William Paladino confirmed that the company will be developing a 100-room hotel under that brand.


Canadian patients constitute a small, but steady stream of patients at Western New York hospitals. Local emergency, outpatient, inpatient and surgical care was provided to 1,070 Canadians in 2018, the most recent year for which complete data were available. 


Working from home isn’t for everybody. About one-quarter of the participants in a new survey said they choose not to work remotely, even though their companies allow it.


REGIONAL HEADLINES


Channel 2: “Flu causing longer ER wait times”


Buffalo News: “What will 40,000 vehicles do if Skyway is torn down? Public weighs in”


Niagara Gazette: “Concerns swirl over Cuomo’s plan for $3 billion environmental bond act”


Jamestown Post-Journal: “Fredonia wins Small Business Revolution competition”


Olean Times Herald: “Thierman recognized for 30 years of service to Cutco”


Batavia Daily News: “Conservatives eschew endorsement in special election”


Rochester Democrat  Chronicle: “Finally, a Garbage Plate to satisfy your sweet tooth; here’s where to get one”


Toronto Star: “Toronto Public Health sets up hotline to answer questions about coronavirus exposure”


HIGH-END DEALS


A total of 35 high-end real-estate deals were registered on Willow Ridge Drive in Hamburg during the past decade, based on a Business First analysis of listings from the Erie County Clerk’s Office. High-end deals are informally defined as transactions valued at $300,000 or more.


JOB OF THE DAY


There are 370 human resources managers in the Buffalo metropolitan area, according to the latest estimates from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Local average annual pay for those workers is $137,260, which is 8.3 percent higher than the corresponding national average of $126,700 for the same field.


WEATHER


Flurries in the morning. High of 30. (See Channel 2’s current forecast.)  


SKYWATCH


The sun rises at 7:33 a.m. and sets at 5:23 p.m. in Buffalo today. The moon sets at 10:09 tonight.


SPORTS


The Buffalo Sabres returned from the All-Star break in lethargic fashion, losing 5-2 to the Ottawa Senators last night. Sabres captain Jack Eichel did score his 29th goal of the season.


SABRES/BRAVES 50TH


This is the 50th season for the Buffalo Sabres and Los Angeles Clippers (born as the Buffalo Braves). A look at this date in their debut year: Both teams visited the San Francisco Bay area on Jan. 29, 1971. The Sabres (12-26-10) defeated the California Golden Seals, 4-2, with Gilbert Perreault getting the hat trick. But the Braves lost to the San Francisco Warriors, 106-100. Dick Garrett led Buffalo with 27 points.


ECONOMIC CALENDAR


The National Association of Realtors issues a report on pending home sales at 10 o’clock this morning. Analysts are predicting a gain of 0.5 percent.


EARNINGS REPORTS


Quarterly reports are coming today from Archer Daniels Midland (ADM), Blue Apron (APRN), Canadian Pacific (CP), Corning (GLW), Dow (DOW), Facebook (FB), General Electric (GE), Marathon Petroleum (MPC), Royal Caribbean (RCL) and Tesla (TSLA).


CURRENCY


One Canadian dollar is worth 75.88 cents (U.S.), according to the Bank of Canada.


TODAY IN HISTORY


The Baseball Hall of Fame elected its first five members, led by Ty Cobb and Babe Ruth, on Jan. 29, 1936.


CELEBRATION


Jan. 29 is National Corn Chip Day.


COUNTDOWN


16 days to Valentine’s Day, 19 days to Presidents Day, 48 days to St. Patrick’s Day, 50 days to the first day of spring and 74 days to Easter.