This sector is beating the S&P 500, and holding strong against coronavirus 
 This is the web version of the Bull Sheet, Fortune’s no-BS daily newsletter on the markets. Sign up to receive it in your inbox here.



Good morning, Bull Sheeters. The sun is shining here in Rome, the European markets are all trading in positive territory, as are U.S. futures. Even crude is rebounding, as I write. So, no need to worry about coronavirus, right?



Hardly. CEOs on earnings calls are getting hounded about the virus’ impact on sales. Apple, which crushed it in Q4, says it’s cutting store hours in this vital market, and limiting employee travel there. The upshot: you’re going to hear a lot more about coronavirus this quarter, and into the next.



But I want to switch gears this morning and talk about a sector of the market that seems remarkably immune to global contagions: real estate. Our Adrian Croft dug deep into the global real estate sector in the “chasing returns” feature for Fortune‘s Quarterly Investment Guide and found 12 take-aways for investors. What caught my eye is the booming market in REITs, or real estate investment trusts. REITs trade on stock exchanges and pay dividends, so they’re becoming more attractive to every-day investors. 



And there’s an impressive bull run going on in the REITs market at the moment. The Wall Street Journal‘s Matt Wirz suggests it’s no fad. Investors are looking for returns that they can’t get from bonds in this low-interest rates world.



And that brings me to today’s chart.



S&P 500 had a good 2019, but nothing like the REITs



***







Nobody would complain about the S&P 500 performance in 2019. But select REITs had an even better year. If you looks closely at the chart you’ll see the hottest REITs reflect bigger business trends. There’s been a boom in data center construction, for example. Not surprisingly data center REITs are flying.  



Nareit, the trade group for REITs, broke it down further in a recent report.



Check out the rest of Adrian’s story on real estate. There’s also a fascinating breakdown on the overseas real estate markets for those of you looking to invest in a place in the sun. It’s January. Why not?



Bernhard Warner@BernhardWarnerBernhard.Warner@Fortune.com