Wuhan virus: new song from Singapore’s JJ Lin and Stefanie Sun strikes chord in China 
 Singaporean singers JJ Lin and Stefanie Sun have co-written a song to cheer on those affected by the Wuhan coronavirus, drawing praise from Chinese social media users.

The song, Stay With You, is composed and sung by Lin, a three-time Golden Melody Award winner.

The lyrics – which include lines such as “the coldest day will pass” and “the time of darkness will eventually end” – were written by Sun.

Lin on Tuesday shared the song on popular Chinese microblogging site Weibo, with the caption: “No matter the challenge, love will always prevail.”

His post has since garnered more than 1 million likes, and 500,000 shares.

Sun also shared the song on her Instagram account, and explained that she was contacted by Lin a few days ago to write a song to pay tribute to all those working on the front lines as they try to curb the virus’ spread.

“Stay With You is from our hearts. Thank you for all the hard work,” she wrote.

The song struck a chord with Chinese netizens on Weibo.

One of them, with the username Bapiwang, was touched by how the Singaporean pair dedicated the song to the “angels in white” who are battling against the Wuhan coronavirus.

“The two singers really went the extra mile, and are indeed idols with positive energy,” he wrote.

Another commented on how the song had brought people “warmth and strength” despite only a simple cello accompaniment.

“As long as everyone works together, there is nothing that we cannot defeat,” the user said. “A few days ago, there were still netizens who scolded JJ Lin for not speaking up in the face of the epidemic. Now we know why … he was working on this song.”

This is not the first time Lin has written a song to inspire those in mainland China. He previously wrote Love And Hope for victims of the 2008 Sichuan earthquake.

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

This article Wuhan virus: new song from Singapore’s JJ Lin and Stefanie Sun strikes chord in China first appeared on South China Morning Post

For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.