Coronavirus: IndiGo suspends flights to Chengdu, Hong Kong 
 IndiGo airlines said on Wednesday that due to the novel coronavirus outbreak in China, it has decided to suspend its flights on the Bengaluru-Hong Kong route from February 1 and on the Delhi-Chengdu route from February 1 to 20.



IMAGE: Health workers in protective suits check the condition of a passenger on an airplane that just landed from Changsha, a city in a province neighboring the center of coronavirus outbreak Hubei province, in Shanghai, China, January 25, 2020. Photograph: David Stanway/Reuters

The low-cost carrier said for now, it will continue to operate the Kolkata-Guangzhou flight which it is 'monitoring on a daily basis'.

'And for our operating crew, we are ensuring that they return to India on the inbound flights without any layover in China,' the airline said in a statement.

 

Moreover, according to a source, India's largest airline has also told its crew members -- who are working on flights connecting India with East Asian countries like Thailand and Singapore -- to wear N95 masks at all times when they are on ground.

'However, these crew members have been asked not to wear the mask when they are flying. They have also been told to avoid public places, meat from unverified sources and uncooked meat in East Asian cities. They have also been told to wash their hands frequently,' the source added.

According to an Air India official, all crew members working on flights between India and South East Asia have been asked to wear N95 masks.

In India, many people are under observation in hospitals for suspected coronavirus infection including in Maharashtra, Goa, Odisha and the national capital. People returning to the country after visiting China are being regularly screened for the deadly virus at airports across the country.


Novel coronavirus (nCoV) is a large family of viruses that causes illnesses ranging from common cold to acute respiratory syndromes. The virus, which has killed 132 people and affected at least 6,000 others in China, is a novel strain not seen before.

In its statement, IndiGo said on Wednesday, 'After carefully assessing the current coronavirus situation in China, IndiGo is taking some safety measures for its customers, crew and staff. Due to China travel restrictions, we have seen a high number of cancellations from China on our Delhi-Chengdu route and vice versa.'

'Therefore, we are suspending our flights between Delhi and Chengdu from February 1 until February 20. We are also suspending our Bengaluru-Hong Kong flight effective February 1,' it added.

The low-cost carrier stated that these are purely temporary and precautionary measures.

'We understand that these measures will cause inconvenience to our customers and we will be refunding the full amount to the impacted passengers,' it clarified.

IndiGo added that it is in 'close touch' with the 'relevant government authorities' and 'we thank them and our partners in China for all the help and support that they have extended so far'.

Air India has kept a 423-seater jumbo plane ready in Mumbai to airlift Indian citizens from Wuhan city in China in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Wuhan is the capital of China's Hubei province.

As India started the preparations to evacuate over 250 Indians, mostly students, stuck in the Hubei province, its embassy in Beijing said these nationals will have to undergo a mandatory 14-day quarantine on their return.

3 with symptoms of coronavirus tests negative, 18 other suspects also fine

A man in Jaipur, who was found with symptoms of coronavirus, tested negative and 18 other suspects in Rajasthan were also in good health, Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said on Wednesday.

Blood sample of the man, who was admitted to the Isolation Ward of the SMS Hospital, was sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for examination, he said, adding that the second sample would be taken according to the prescribed norms.

Meanwhile, a 50-year-old woman and her 20-year-old son who were admitted to a hospital in Ujjain for possible exposure to coronavirus also tested negative, a district health official said on Wednesday.

The duo were admitted in the isolation ward of the hospital on January 27, after the 20-year-old returned from Wuhan in China, where he was studying medicine.

"The examination report of the two suspected patients of Coronavirus has come out negative," Ujjain's chief medical and health officer Dr Mahavir Khandelwal said.

The woman and her son are suffering from normal cold and cough and they would be discharged from the hospital soon, he added.

Will provide necessary assistance for evacuation of foreign nationals from Wuhan: China

As India prepares to airlift its citizens from Wuhan, the epicentre of the deadly coronavirus outbreak, China said on Wednesday that it would make all appropriate arrangements and provide necessary assistance if any country 'insists' on evacuating its nationals.

Besides India, several other countries including the US, France, Japan, South Korea, are making arrangements to airlift their nationals from central Hubei province and its capital city Wuhan.

The Chinese Foreign Ministry which is coordinating the evacuation of the foreign nationals told PTI in Beijing on Wednesday that China would make appropriate arrangements if any country 'insists' on evacuating its nationals.


"China attaches great importance to protecting the lives and health of citizens of all countries in Wuhan, Hubei province, and will continue to take active and effective measures to address their legitimate concerns and demands in a timely manner," the foreign ministry said in response to a question.

"If a country insists on evacuating its citizens in Wuhan, China will make appropriate arrangements and provide necessary assistance and convenience in accordance with international practice and China's relevant provisions on epidemic prevention," the ministry said.