China’s Health Scare Tempers High Hopes in U.S. Farm Markets 
 (Bloomberg) -- Want to receive this post in your inbox every day? Sign up for the Terms of Trade newsletter, and follow Bloomberg Economics on Twitter for more.

Two weeks ago, the U.S. and China completed a phase-one trade deal amid almost immediate doubts that Beijing’s commodity purchase pledges were achievable.

That was before a health crisis gripped the world’s second-largest economy, making it even tougher to see how the export sales that President Donald Trump said would make American farmers “so happy” will materialize.

Since then Chinese buyers have booked only modest amounts of U.S. soybeans, pork and cotton, according to government data. Sure, it’s early days and coronavirus is an ongoing emergency. Barges aren’t ordered, loaded and delivered that quickly anyway.

But markets are noticing the dearth of buying activity, wondering how big of a dent to demand the health scare will cause.

While the agreement granted grace periods of 10 days or more to sort out paperwork, traders are growing impatient to see the follow-through after China’s pledge the boost purchases of American agricultural supplies by $32 billion over two years from pre-trade war levels. The shopping list includes soybeans, grain, meat, cotton and dairy.

Futures prices for soybeans — historically the most valuable U.S. export to China — have slumped 4.4% in Chicago since the day before the deal was signed. Hog prices — pork is the preferred red meat among Chinese consumers — are 4.9% lower over the same time period. Cotton is down 1.4% since mid-January, after reaching an eight-month high two days before the China accord was signed. U.S. wheat is little changed since the signing ceremony. China has indeed bought the grain, but from Australia, Canada and France as part of WTO quotas.

As the coronavirus spreads, slower economic growth and travel restrictions could limit the need for imports in China’s food pipeline. Beijing pushed for wording in the accord that ensured its purchases complied with both WTO rules and the laws of supply and demand — insulating it somewhat against unforeseen events like a demand shock.

“It is, above all, uncertainty about the effects of the increasingly widespread coronavirus and about the implementation of the Phase 1 deal agreed between the U.S. and China that is weighing on sentiment,” Commerzbank said about slumping agricultural markets in a report yesterday. “As yet, there have been no reports of any significant Chinese purchases in the U.S.”

The U.S. and Kenya are expected to announce negotiations on a free-trade agreement next week, America’s first such deal with a sub-Saharan country. The Trump administration wants the accord to be a model for future pacts with other nations in the region, though Kenya said that any potential arrangement won’t replace the African Growth and Opportunity Act, which provides 39 sub-Saharan African countries duty-free access to the U.S. for about 6,500 products ranging from textiles to manufactured items. The U.S. currently has one FTA on the African continent — with Morocco.

Huawei fallout | The U.S. lost its long battle to persuade the U.K. to ban China’s Huawei from fifth-generation wireless networks, further straining the transatlantic alliance. Signed, sealed, delivered | Trump plans to sign into law a trade pact with Canada and Mexico on Wednesday, sealing a political victory that will help bolster his economic record. Carbon border tax | The European Commission is considering several options for penalizing imports from polluters, amid louder warnings that China and the U.S. may retaliate. Passage to India | U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer will be in India in the second week of February to finalize a trade deal ahead of Trump’s expected visit. Preferred customer | South Africa will tell the U.S. that a review of a preferential trade agreement could put as much as $2.4 billion in exports at risk.

Lacking momentum | Bloomberg Economics sees trade imbalances persisting in the euro-area economy. China duties | Three Chinese companies are challenging U.S. anti-subsidy duties on pressure steel cylinders.

Don’t keep it to yourself. Colleagues and friends can sign up here. We also publish Balance of Power, a daily briefing on the latest in global politics. For even more: Subscribe to Bloomberg All Access for full global news coverage and two in-depth daily newsletters, The Bloomberg Open and The Bloomberg Close. How are we doing? We want to hear what you think about this newsletter. Let our trade tsar know. --With assistance from Megan Durisin, Jenny Leonard and David Herbling. To contact the author of this story: Michael Hirtzer in Chicago at mhirtzer@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: Brendan Murray at brmurray@bloomberg.net, Zoe Schneeweiss For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source.