Markets break two-day losing streak, Sensex up by 232 points 
 India equities closed on a positive note on Wednesday after a two-day losing streak as investors remain hopeful of market-friendly decisions in the upcoming budget on February 1.

While some volatility was observed in the closing session ahead of January F&O contracts expiry, both BSE Sensex and NSE Nifty managed to end in green.

Sensex ended 231.80 points or 0.57 per cent higher at 41,198.66, breaking a two-day losing streak due to third-quarter company results disclosed today.

It is worth mentioning that 24 of the 30 listed stocks on BSE Sensex ended in positive territory with Bajaj Finance, which ended five per cent higher, emerged as the top gainer. Tata Motors, Bharti Infratel, Nestle and Bajaj Finserv also emerged as top gainers.

On the contrary, TCS emerged as the top loser, falling over 1 per cent. Eicher Motors, Yes Bank, Dr. Reddy’s Labs and HDFC were others that witnessed a fall.

Meanwhile, NSE Nifty ended end 73.70 points higher to settle over 12,100 points as all sectoral indices except Nifty Pharma ended positively. At the day’s closing, Nifty FMCG, Metal and Auto indexes registered healthy gains.

While Indian markets ended in the green, volatility remains at large as Asian markets have been negatively impacted by new cases of coronavirus, which has spooked investors. Stock markets in Hong Kong have also been badly affected after it re-opened on Wednesday due to deepening worries over the spread of the 2019-novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).

Asian shares fell on Wednesday as a spike in new Chinese virus cases sent Hong Kong stocks tumbling and added to worries about the economic impact of the outbreak. Over the next few sessions, the volatility in Asian markets, Q3 company results and Union Budget 2019-20 are expected to dictate stock market movement.

Markets are keenly awaiting the announcement of the union budget on Saturday, when the government is expected to raise spending on infrastructure and cut some personal tax to spur consumer demand and investment.