Coronavirus: What Indian citizens should know 
 Indian authorities have placed several citizens under medical watch, screened thousands of passengers and issued travel and health advisories to pre-empt the spread of a new virus strain that has killed over 130 in neighbouring China.

No positive cases have been reported so far in India, and suspected ones are being monitored. A study from the University of Southampton says India is one of 30 nations at "high risk".

The 2019 Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) is a cousin of pathogens causing SARS and MERS, and was first detected in China's Wuhan city, located in the central Hubei province.

This article contains useful information and links to resources for Indian citizens at home and overseas. It will be updated daily, as and when new information becomes available.

[Be sure to check out our comprehensive guide on the Wuhan coronavirus outbreak. Also see the infographics below, based on FAQs published by the health ministry and recommendations from the World Health Organisation.]

Indians have been advised against travelling to China. An earlier government advisory cautioned against "non-essential" travel.

New Delhi has asked Beijing to help it evacuate its citizens from Wuhan, one of China's largest cities, and has a plane on standby.

The Indian embassy in Beijing has asked Indian nationals in Hubei province to urgently call its hotlines (+8618610952903, +8618612083629 and +8618612083617), or mail helpdesk.beijing@mea.gov.in.

IndiGo is temporarily suspending its Delhi-Chengdu (Feb 1-Feb 20) and Bengaluru-Hong Kong (Feb 21 onwards) flights.

As many as 21 Indian airports are screening passengers for the new coronavirus, the health ministry said.

People have been placed under observation in recent days in several states and territories, including Kerala, Maharashtra, Haryana, Punjab and Delhi-NCR.

Pradeep Awate, a state surveillance officer in Maharashtra's health department, reiterated the importance of good hygiene practices, including respiratory etiquette. (Read our full story on coronavirus precautions.)

Citizens who've come into contact with people infected with 2019-nCoV should monitor their health for a 28-day period and seek medical attention if they develop a fever, cough or breathing difficulties, the Indian health ministry said.

Suspected coronavirus cases are being sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune, Maharashtra, for testing, Union Health Ministry Harsh Vardhan said.

Eleven Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratories, or VRDLs, are ready to deal with an outbreak.