Robots join fight to stop the deadly coronavirus from becoming a pandemic 
 Robots are now helping in the effort to limit the spread of a deadly new coronavirus.

Machines are performing tasks which would expose humans to the risk of infection, allowing patients to be treated without exposing them to the disease.

In China, 200 people have been quarantined in a hotel just minutes after their plane touched down.

Now they’re enjoying some hi-tech hospitality courtesy of a fleet of robots.

A service ‘droid with a female voice named ‘Xiaohuasheng’ – which means ‘Little Peanut’ – is one of more than a dozen identical models operating on every floor of the 16-storey hotel in Hangzhou, capital of Zhejiang Province in East China.

In the clip, the robot is seen rolling down the empty hotel corridor, stopping in front of a door where a guest wearing a surgical mask and slippers collects his meal.

The robot repeatedly announces: ‘Hello, everyone. Cute Little Peanut is now delivering your meals.

‘Enjoy your meal. Please contact staff through WeChat if you have any other requests.’

MORE: Coronavirus could spread to London, Sydney, New York and many other world cities, scientists warn

According to reports, all 335 passengers returning from Singapore on Scoot flight TR 188 were tested shortly after arrival at Hangzhou Xiaoshan International Airport on 24th January.

Two passengers showed signs of a fever and were sent to the city’s First People’s Hospital, while 114, all residents of the city of Wuhan, were quarantined at the airport hotel.

The remaining 219 – plus 11 flight crew – were sent to individual rooms in the state-run hotel, which belongs to the Party School of the CPC Hangzhou Committee.

Since January 28, quarantined guests on all floors of the establishment have had their meals delivered by Little Peanut.

Officials believe this will help reduce the risk of the novel coronavirus spreading further as health workers observe the guests for possible exposure and infection.

Since the outbreak of the Wuhan virus was confirmed in late 2019, 132 deaths and 5,900 cases have been reported in mainland China.

There have been roughly 6,000 infections worldwide and scientists are now racing to create a vaccine for the feared disease.

In the US, robots were also used to treat a coronavirus patient at Providence Regional Medical Center in Everett, Washington, in the US.

A man in his thirties was examined by a mechanical MD equipped with a stethoscope and microphone so he could speak with human doctors.