Coronavirus ‘plague sent by God to punish China and parents who make kids transgender,' claims crackpot pastor 
 A CRACKPOT pastor has bizarrely claimed coronavirus is an "end-times plague" sent to punish Chinese communists, the parents of transgender children and "sexually immoral" Americans.

Christian pastor and founder of TruNews Rick Wiles made the odd comments on his broadcast, branding the virus a "death angel".

Shared by Right Wing Watch, the astonishing clip sees the pastor make a slew of offensive claims.

He says: "My spirit bears witness that this is a genuine plague...and God is about to purge a lot of sin off this planet".

He adds plagues are one of the last steps of judgement - Wiles has a history of warning of an imminent apocalypse.

The pastor then goes on to say: "Look at China...Godless state.

He goes on to say: "I am not talking about the Chinese people I am talking about the Chinese government".

Then the pastor turns his attention homeward.

Wiles claims a "spiritual rebellion" in the united states adding: "Look at the hatred of God".

The pastor continues: "There's vile, disgusting people in this country now, transgendering little children.

Two men, co-hosting the show nod in agreement.

Wiles claims it's "filth" on American screens that is "perverting" US children and that has brought on the "plague".

He then goes on to urge people to get baptised telling them "Jesus' blood" will protect them from the illness.

He also claims only Christians will survive the epidemic.

Coronavirus, originated in Wuhan, China has so far claimed the life of 131 people and infected thousands, spreading across the globe.

It's thought the SARS-like illness was spread via unlicensed exotic animals at a seafood market in the region.

The pastor has previously made outlandish comments on the show, notably branding President Obama a "demon from hell" and alleging the impeachment proceedings are a "Jew coup," which many branded antisemitic.

His broadcast on TruNews began as an online radio show in 1999, with the Pastor inviting criticism over the years for spreading hateful views towards various communities and conspiracy theories.