Crown plays coronavirus cards close to chest, confirms John Alexander exit 
 When asked if Mr Alexander will exit the business when his current contract ends, Mr Barton said: "Given the main task over the next 12 months is a handover task that obviously has a finite timeline … you could draw that conclusion."
Mr Barton also noted Crown's announcement at its AGM that it had already experienced a 46 per cent decline in VIP turnover in the first four months of this financial year.
This plunge in turnover followed reports in the Sydney Morning Herald, The Age and 60 Minutes that Crown allegedly worked with figures linked to organised crime to lure wealthy Chinese gamblers to its casinos.
Mr Barton was promoted from chief financial officer to CEO and Helen Coonan appointed chairwoman on Friday, as part of sweeping changes where Mr Alexander stood down to an executive director position on a 12-month contract.

Mr Alexander is one of several prominent business executives set to appear alongside James Packer at the NSW casino regulator's public inquiry into Crown.
Loading
Mr Barton flagged there will be no fresh agenda with the change in leadership at the casino operator, given the range of challenges the company faces this year, which include a class action, regulatory inquiries and ongoing issues related to the detention of employees in China.
“We’ve got regulatory processes, we’ve got Sydney and at the same time we’ve got plenty of challenges around the domestic and international businesses to make sure Melbourne and Perth keep performing," said Mr Barton.
"That’s enough of an agenda for us in the near term, and on the other side of that we will obviously have the opportunity to start thinking about what comes next.”

He was upbeat about the opening of the Sydney casino at Barangaroo.
“Construction is going better than our original schedule, so it’s tracking very well,” he said of the company's plans to open by Chinese New Year 2021, which falls in mid-February.
He said Crown is not underestimating what is required to ensure the project is completed on time and "opens well".
This includes complications like two Australian casinos operating in the same market for the first time, and the Sydney casino being a members-only establishment and won't feature poker machines.
The new Crown casino construction site in Barangaroo, Sydney. Credit:Peter Braig

On Tuesday, Macquarie Equities analysts highlighted the widening of consensus earnings estimates for Crown's 2022 financial year due to differing forecasts of the new Sydney casino's contribution.
The report said there is a $200 million spread in forecast earnings before interest tax depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) from the highest to lowest estimates.
"From our perspective, we assume Crown Sydney is fully ramped by 2024-25 generating $148 million EBITDA," said Macquarie.

Colin Kruger is a business reporter. He joined the Sydney Morning Herald in 1999 as its technology editor. Other roles have included the Herald's deputy business editor and online business editor.