Moment ROBOTS gives food to people quarantined because of coronavirus 
 INCREDIBLE new footage shows robots delivering food to people trapped inside a quarantined hotel in China — as coronavirus continues to claim lives.

In desperate efforts to stop the deadly virus, more than 200 tourists were housed in the isolation point in Hangzou, east China.

So far, more than 132 people have died from the mysterious new coronavirus — according to official Chinese statistics — but the real number is likely much higher.

As the death toll continues to rise, robots have been brought in to help contain the deadly disease.

Incredibly, they have been programmed to stop by room doors in the hotel to deliver meals and even, strangely, serenade guests.

Most of the tourists locked in quarantine flew in from Wuhan, the city where the virus originated from.

A video, taken by guests staying there on Sunday, shows the robot stopping in front of guest’s doors as people come out and take the food from them.

To lighten the mood during the meal service, the eerily cheerful robot plays music and communicates to its guests.

According to The Star, it can be heard saying: “I am now serving meals to you and if you have any meal requirements, please send us a message through WeChat.

“A member of staff will contact you shortly — enjoy your meal.”

A spokesman at Hangzou School of Communist Party of China explained how they have programmed 16 robots, one on each floor across the building.

He said they have set the route for the robots, including where to go, where to stop and to play the announcement at the door.

Across the world, the ever-worsening outbreak has sent people into a frenzy with nearly 6,000 people struck down with the killer virus and 132 recorded deaths.

In a landmark evacuation mission, Britons stuck in coronavirus-hit Wuhan are gearing up to be flown back to the UK on Thursday via chartered planes.

In China, health workers have been hosing down streets, shops and public transport with disinfectant spray to curb the spiralling epidemic.

And in unprecedented circumstances, thousands worked tirelessly to build a 1,000 bed coronavirus hospital.