Missed Davos? Here’s The Most Important Take-Away 
 Trust has been established as a critical element of functional relationships at work and home, by psychologists, economists, leadership experts, marketers, trainers, teachers, and professors. To get people to do what we want them to, they have to trust that we as business leaders have their best interest in mind, or at least that of the common good, rather than just our own. In as chaotic and fast-changing an environment as today’s, having the trust of our team is particularly important. As business leaders, we can learn about how to build the public’s trust from the rich cache of data created by Edelman’s global trust barometer, measured annually since 2000.


In Business We Trust
The crisis of trust is quite tangible these days. Between impeachment proceedings in the US, Brexit, Megxit, trade tensions with China, military tensions in the Middle East, and the coronavirus outbreak, the first month of 2020 doesn’t exactly elicit trust or reassurance about the future. Beyond these current headlines, Edelman’s data confirms that trust in institutions (government, media, and NGOs) is lower than ever, while business has risen to the top, and we trust our employers more than these other three institutions. 
Our trust of business doesn’t mean that we’re satisfied with its performance. According to Edelman, 48% of respondents think the current system is failing them (up 3% from 2019) and partially because only 18% felt it is working for them (down 2% since 2019). And 56% said “capitalism as it exists today does more harm than good in the world.” We trust in business, but there’s a sense that the private sector is not living up to its potential to be a force for good in our lives and communities. 
The stark reality among all ages, income groups, and education levels in 26 global markets.
Edelman

The good news is that people do still strongly believe in the potential of business, and capitalism as a system: 73% of the global population surveyed agree that “a company can take specific actions that both increase profits and improve the social and economic conditions in the communities where it operates.” And 74% want “CEOs to take the lead on change rather than waiting for government to impose it,” up from 65% in 2018. We believe collectively that business can be a force for good, indeed the most trustworthy one we’ve got, and we’re eager for business leaders to step up into the role of change-maker.
Finally, it’s important to note that trust of business is not distributed equally throughout the population. Edelman divides respondents into two audiences: ‘mass population‘ (83% of the global population) and ‘informed public’ (top 25% of household income in their market, college-educated, and significantly engaged with public policy and business news). The gap between responses from these two groups is larger than ever. This divide underlines the need to teach, integrate, and reward the trend toward social and environmental responsibility at all levels of the organization, far beyond CEO proclamations, brand strategy statements, or sustainability reports.


What’s Trust Made Of
We trust people and institutions that we judge to be competent and ethical. Lest business leaders rest on their laurels of being the most trusted institution in 2020 (still only by 55% of the general public), they’d do well to consider the sources of this trust. Businesses’ relative position compared to government, media, and NGOs is based on their competence, not their ethics. The ethical drivers of trust- integrity, purpose, and dependability- matter three times more than competence to employees, consumers, and investors. 
We’ve seen a great trend among CEOs and other business leaders in speaking out about their commitment to build a business that is good for the people and planet. The Business Roundtable statement renouncing shareholder capitalism in favor of a longer-term and more holistic stakeholder value perspective was notable. Starting in 2018, Larry Fink’s investor letters have called for businesses to consider their positive and negative social and environmental impacts. 
This change is philosophy is significant, and promising. But it won’t build the trust required for high-functioning institutions, private or public. Richard Edelman, the man behind these 20 years of insight, knows what will. At the famous gathering of global leaders in Davos, he said: “Business has a problem of ethical behavior. People wonder whether or not business is actually going to do what it thinks and says it’s going to do. And so, do, don’t talk.”
Business has re-established trust with the public since 2008, but it's based on competence, not ... [+] ethics.
EdelmanWe trust people and institutions that we judge to be competent and ethical. Lest business leaders rest on their laurels of being the most trusted institution in 2020 (still only by 55% of the general public), they’d do well to consider the sources of this trust. Businesses’ relative position compared to government, media, and NGOs is based on their competence, not their ethics. And the ethical drivers of trust- integrity, purpose, and dependability- matter three times more than competence to employees, consumers, and investors.


Business is leaving a lot on the table by not projecting integrity, purpose, or dependability.
Edelman

People’s trust of business as an institution, combined with growing expectations for business to lead the transition to a more ethical and fair future, presents a massive opportunity for companies that aspire to lead the transition to stakeholder capitalism. But it requires concrete and inclusive action, not just CEO-level pronouncements or lofty purpose statements. As we do with any new technology, policy, or brand or product rollout, the first critical step is education. To take advantage of the powerful potential of our era to transform capitalism into a powerful force for innovation, equity, and regenerative practices, we have to help people – at all levels of our organizations, internally and externally – understand what that can look like.


Follow below to get part two of this article with three specific ways you can build trust in your team or company.