Brits face dilemma of escaping coronavirus while leaving families stranded 
 Desperate families are being torn apart as many are being made to chose between escaping coronavirus or leaving their partners behind.

A flight carrying Brits is due to leave Wuhan, China, on Thursday and officials are looking at taking passengers to a military base once they arrive home, the Department of Health said.

British teacher Jeff Siddle can be evacuated from the city with his nine-year-old daughter Jasmine.

But he faces his family being separated as Beijing is barring his Chinese wife Sindy from boarding the flight home - and Mr Siddle's situation is not a unique one.

Are you a Brit in China? Have you been affected by the outbreak? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk

Mr Siddletold BBC Radio 4's Today: "My wife's a Chinese citizen although she's got a permanent residency visa for the UK as a spouse.

"The Foreign Office are saying they're going to be doing an airlift possibly tomorrow but it's only British citizens.

"I had to make a decision where it's either my nine-year-old daughter, who's got a British passport, and myself to leave - and leave my wife here in China - or the three of us stay."

He said if they left, the situation would leave them with his young daughter being separated from her mum - and he had no idea how long it would be for.

The dad, from Northumberland, said his girl has been in floods of tears.

He told the Guardian there were no health warnings in place when he flew to China earlier this month and called the situation 'horrendous'.

Nick House, a British national living in Wuhan with his Indonesian wife and two British children, told Sky News: "We would like to be out of here.

"The man on the other end of the phone said 'Yes, you are on the list, but unfortunately your wife probably won't be able to get on the plane because she doesn't have a visa at the moment'.

"I won't leave without my wife, so essentially the Government are leaving three British people here for the sake of one seat on a plane."

Another expat, Malcolm Lanyon, has chosen to stay in the Chinese region because he refused to leave his wife behind, according to the Daily Mail.

Secure facilities are being considered by the Government as it ratchets up plans for the arrival of around 200 expats trapped in Wuhan, where the outbreak originated.

Passengers may be asked to sign a contract before they board the plane saying they agree to being placed in quarantine.

Anyone who does not wish to sign could be asked to stay.

Even those not displaying symptoms will be detained for 14 days - thought to be the maximum possible incubation period for the coronavirus, which has killed more than 130 people in China and infected more than 6,000 others.

Urgent plans to get Brits out of the province of Hubei, which contains Wuhan, are being finalised with an evacuation flight due to depart on Thursday.

Health Secretary Matt Hancock tweeted: "We are working hard to get British nationals back from Wuhan. Public safety is the top priority.

"Anyone who returns from Wuhan will be safely isolated for 14 days, with all necessary medical attention."