Wuhan footie team flies to Malaga for training amid fears they brought bug 
 WUHAN’s football team arrived in Malaga today for a training camp sparking fears they’ve brought the coronavirus with them.

Wuhan Zall, who are from the epicentre of the deadly outbreak, touched down in southern Spain where they will be staying for a number of weeks.

The Chinese First Division side were deemed safe to enter the country by health officials, having been in a different part of China since January 2.

The team have been training in Guangzhou – some 620 miles from Wuhan – for longer than the disease’s incubation period.

And none of the players have been displaying any symptoms.

But their arrival has still sparked fears of an outbreak in Spain from many in the country.

One person tweeted: “Yes, they have been tested and appear to be healthy, but ... if not? Once again football prevailing above all.”

Another said: “The trip should be cancelled… letting the team in would be madness.”

And a third wrote: “Who the hell has let the Wuhan football team come to Malaga?!?”

But the team’s Spanish manager José González called for calm from his compatriots.

He said: “I understand the reluctance and concern, but they are not walking viruses.

“They are athletes who came last year and wanted to return.”

Health officials are expected to continue to monitor their condition while in Spain.

It comes after news the Chinese women's national soccer team is being quarantined at a hotel in Brisbane, Australia.

The players will be required to stay at their inner-city hotel until February 5 after arriving on January 22, amid fears members may have the bug.

The death toll from coronavirus has now reached 132, with around 6,000 confirmed cases around the world.

The majority of cases have been in and around Wuhan, which has been sealed off in a strict quarantine by Beijing.

Up to 200 Brits are expected to be flown back from the city in the coming days.

Health Secretary Matt Hancock said they will be quarantined for up to 14 days.

Since the initial outbreak, the virus has spread across China and to at least 16 countries globally.

And there are fears the bug could continue to spread.

Experts have warned the deadly disease will become a worldwide pandemic if governments do not impose heavy global travel bans.