Flight cancellations due to Coronavirus - your refund rights explained 
 British Airways has temporarily suspended all flights to and from Beijing and Shanghai as the deadly Coronavirus continues to spread across parts of Asia.

The airline said flights have been called off until January 31, while it "assesses the situation".

It comes after the British government advised against all but essential travel to mainland China as the virus continues to sweep the nation.

Holidaymakers due to depart between now and February 23 can re-book flights operated by British Airways for other dates to the same destination.

BA said this must be in the same cabin class as the original flight or a lower cabin if available. It also includes any connecting flights that are operated by BA.

Customers can also request a refund for flights by contacting BA or if booked via a travel agent, contacting the agent for a refund.

Virgin Atlantic, which operates flights to Hong Kong, and Shanghai in mainland China, said flights to these destinations continue.

However it said if you no longer wish to travel, you can:

Cathay Pacific said it will reduce the capacity of its flights to and from mainland China by 50% or more from January 30 to the end of March. It advises flyers to check individual bookings for more information.

Cathay Dragon flights to and from Wuhan have also been suspended until March 31.

Adam French, Which? consumer rights expert, said: "With the FCO warning against all but essential travel, those with trips planned to China will rightly be concerned about what to do next.

"In these circumstances, your tour operator should get in touch to cancel your trip and offer you a refund. You are also likely to be covered for cancellation by your travel insurance."

Most travel insurers will cover your journey if you booked your cover before the outbreak became a known event.

Travel insurer Staysure told Mirror Money: "Customers who booked their holiday before the outbreak was a known event and purchased the Travel Disruption Extension with their policy will be covered.

"Our Travel Disruption Extension covers emergency incidents where it’s been declared not safe for you to travel, or if you were to get stuck on holiday, due to natural disasters, an outbreak of an infectious disease or terrorism incidents."

If you are travelling to China soon, it's best to check the FCO’s travel advice page on their website before you go, just in case the situation changes.

If you decide to travel against the advice of the FCO, it is likely that your travel insurer will not cover you.

To find out more on the terms of your cover, speak to your provider.