Searches for 'Corona beer virus' surge as boozers fear tipple is linked to bug 
 THE outbreak coronavirus appears to have led to people fearing their favourite beer is linked to the deadly bug.

In the mistaken belief that the famous Mexican brand Corona may somehow be connected to the virus, searches such “corona beer virus” have been surging.

The beer is famously drunk with a lime in the neck but it’s not connected to the virus in any way.

The virus first appeared in the Chinese city of Wuhan and so far 132 people have been killed and nearly 6000 infected.

 According to data from Google trends, "beer coronavirus" searches have increased substantially around the world since January 18.

Cambodia and Denmark topped the list of places which saw a surge in searches for the term.

Global searches between January 18 and January 26 "corona beer virus" jumped 2,300 per cent.

In the same period, "beer virus" searches jumped 744 per and for "beer coronavirus" jumped 3,233 per cent.

In Spanish, corona means crown, and Corona beer originated in Mexico but in English, the anatomical term corona is used for body parts resembling a crown.

A recent prank video video shows a woman wearing a medical face mask and gloves opening the Mexican beers yelling "I'm getting rid of the virus."

The coronavirus is named because its external cell structure has little crown-like spikes.

The death toll from the virus has risen to 132 as the number of infections surges to nearly 6000.

Fears have been raised over a rise in coronavirus cases in patients who've never been to China.

So far there have been 97 people tested in the UK for the virus and dramatic video shows the moment hazmat wearing paramedics quarantine a suspected patient in Birmingham.

Up to 200 Brits are expected to be flown back from Wuhan, the centre of the deadly outbreak, in the coming days

Matt Hancock, the Health Secretary, wants everyone being flown back from the virus-hit parts of China to be housed in a secure facility for 14 days.

British Airways has suspended all flights to and from mainland China and the Government finalises urgent plans to bring Brits back from the coronavirus-hit province of Hubei.

The airline, which operates daily flights to Shanghai and Beijing from Heathrow, said it was halting the flights with immediate effect after the Foreign Office warned against "all but essential travel" to the country because of the virus outbreak.