Families ripped apart by coronavirus as 'Britain refuses to accept spouses' 
 A distraught dad has revealed his gut-wrenching decision to leave his wife behind in China as their family is forced apart by the coronavirus.

British people will be evacuated from Wuhan tomorrow and quarantined for two weeks in a UK military base, as the global death toll hits 132 and the deadly virus continues to spread.

However, Jeff Siddle, from Northumberland, will be forced to get on the flight without wife Sindy after she was not offered a seat because she is a Chinese national.

The British Embassy and Foreign Office has claimed the Chinese government has imposed the restrictions on their own nationals, trapping them in the country where nearly 6,000 coronavirus cases are now confirmed.

Jeff says daughter Jasmine, nine, has been in ‘floods of tears’ at the thought of leaving her mum in China.

He told BBC Radio Newcastle: ‘The situation with the airlift is horrendous. My wife is a Chinese passport holder with UK residency.

‘We have heard there is going to be an airlift imminently but they are only allowing British citizens on the plane which means that my wife won’t be allowed to leave.

‘My daughter is absolutely in floods of tears because she’s going to be split up from her mum. It is a horrendous decision that we have had to make.’

The dad-of-one added that Sindy is ‘absolutely devastated’ at being torn apart from the rest of her family.

He said: ‘She has been in tears. She’s just distraught that she can’t be with her daughter. It’s absolutely heartbreaking.’

Jeff has vowed to fight for Sindy, who will stay with family in China until arrangements are made for her to leave.

He said: ‘She said for the sake of Jasmine and myself she will stay with her mum.

‘We are staying with Sindy’s mum in the village in China so at least she is safe here in the village and we are going to try and push, if she can’t get on the flight with us, to campaign to try and get her to come back as soon as the virus outbreak settles down.’

The family first arrived on January 16 to celebrate Chinese New Year with Sindy’s family.

They claim to have felt a party atmosphere in the Hubei province at first – but say everything has changed now, with the spread of the virus growing worse every day.

Jeff said: ‘It’s an incredible contrast to when we got here on the 16th of January. There was a festive spirit, it was like the build up to Chinese New Year.

‘It was a bit like the build up to Christmas here, the streets were full, there was entertainment and everything and then as this has unfolded it’s like a ghost town.’

The father added that he and Jasmine face a difficult journey to the airport tomorrow, with dozens of roads closed and checkpoints to pass through.

When they arrive back in the UK, they will both face 14 days in quarantine and have been forced to leave most of their belongings in China after a ‘one small bag’ restriction was put on their luggage.