Major fast-food chains and retailers in China are shutting their doors as the deadly coronavirus continues to spread. Here's a list of closures. 
 Several fast-food chains and retailers have closed their doors in Wuhan and neighboring Chinese cities due to the deadly coronavirus. McDonald's and Starbucks were among the first companies to announce temporary closures late last week, in an attempt to prevent the spread of the virus among employees and customers. The virus has killed more than 132 people and infected more than 6,000 since the outbreak was first discovered in Wuhan, China. Here's a list of brands with confirmed closures in China. Visit Business Insider's home page for more stories.



An increasing number of fast-food chains and major retailers in China are issuing temporary closures as the coronavirus death toll continues to rise. The outbreak is believed to have originated at a wet market in Wuhan, China, and has since been reported in 16 other countries, including Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Vietnam, Singapore, Nepal, France, Australia, Malaysia, Canada, and the US. As of Wednesday morning, the virus has killed 132 individuals and infected more than 6,000, according to reports from The New York Times and CNN. McDonald's and Starbucks were among the earliest closures, with both fast-food chains announcing on Friday that they had closed select locations in China to prevent the spread of the virus among employees and customers. The closures came in tandem with mass quarantines in China and orders to halt public transit in Wuhan and neighboring cities. Several major tourist attractions and hospitality companies including the Shanghai Disney Resort and InterContinental Hotels Group have also temporarily shut down, Bloomberg reported. Meanwhile, retailers like Walmart have announced they will stay open for now. A Walmart spokesperson told Business Insider the company is cooperating with local officials and health experts to "closely follow" and monitor the situation. "We are actively reinforcing good hygiene practices in all of our Walmart and Sam's Club locations in China and reminding our teams that the health and safety of our associates and customers is our top priority," a Walmart spokesperson told Business Insider.



Below is a list of confirmed closures. We've reached out to several major fast-food chains and retailers with locations in China and will update this list accordingly. Kate Taylor contributed reporting.