Boeing And China Need To Make Up For Lost Time In Aircraft Sales As US-China Trade War Eases 
 China’s commitment to increase purchases of US-manufactured items like commercial aircraft is seen as helping Boeing, which has not had a major aircraft order from China since 2018 and has decreased production of the 787 partially based on a lack of Chinese orders. But the purchase commitment as part of this month’s first phase deal to end the trade war does not just benefit Boeing. Chinese airlines need Boeing aircraft – soon.
Official orderbooks at Chinese airlines are drying up. Although the short-term will see decreased travel due to the novel coronavirus that originated in Wuhan, traffic typically rebounds within a year of a health outbreak. There are no indications of structural change in underlying demand. The outlook for Chinese aviation remains one of strong growth.
Not only can’t Airbus alone meet this demand, Chinese airlines – and the government – want to split orders to ensure competitive pricing and balance trade interests. This has made China the second-largest revenue source for Boeing’s commercial aircraft division. Largest is the US. China comprised 22% of Boeing’s commercial revenue in 2018, up from 17% in 2016. Boeing reports fourth quarter results on January 30.
Boeing Commercial Airplanes Annual Revenue from China (left axis) and share of total division revenue (right axis): 2016-2018
Boeing's China Revenue
Will HortonSource: Boeing
Boeing Commercial Airplanes Annual Revenue Share By Market: 2018
Boeing Revenue by Region
Will HortonSource: Boeing
There is ample space at Chinese airlines for more widebody aircraft, typically higher-margin for airframers than narrowbody aircraft. The larger price tag will also help China more quickly reach its trade commitment. After planning to add 18 widebodies last year, China Southern’s official fleet plan has 12 widebodies due for delivery this year and just four next year. This is the last year of Boeing widebody deliveries: next year’s four aircraft are all Airbus A350s. These deliveries are not purely for growth. They are also replacements as China Southern retires ten A330s.
China Southern has further impetus for aircraft growth in order to secure the 40% slot share it has been offered at Beijing’s new airport, Daxing International. Included in its Daxing strategy are plans to fly long-haul to blue-chip destinations like London Heathrow, where China Southern will deploy its under-utilized A380s. But a more substantive long-haul program from Daxing will require additional aircraft and not just boosting fleet efficiency.
While China Southern finishes up its Boeing widebody deliveries this year, China Eastern will take its last – a pair of 787s – next year. China Eastern next year will also take four A350s, bringing its fleet of Airbus’ newest twinjet family to 15 out of an initial order for 20. China Eastern said all 20 would be delivered through 2022. This is lighter widebody growth than the 11 A350s and 787s it took last year.
Air China last took delivery of a Boeing widebody in 2018 and has no more on order.  Its A350 deliveries are due to increase from five this year to seven next year.
New order announcements from this so-called “Big 3” cohort of state-owned airlines that dominate the market are likely to include the 787-10, the latest variant of the 787. While the Big 3, and other Chinese airlines, operate existing 787 variants, no Chinese airline has ordered the -10, which is especially popular in the region: 42% of orders for the -10 are from airlines in Asia. The other widebody aircraft Chinese airlines have not ordered is the 777X. All of the Big 3 have large 777-300ER fleets, making the 777X a replacement candidate. But most of their -300ERs are still young and do not urgently need a replacement secured.
Narrowbody growth is needed but complicated as Boeing keeps the 737 MAX production line shut, the MAX has yet to return to service and Boeing works out compensation agreements with airlines. Boeing so far seems to prefer compensation in the form of a discount on future orders.
Air China was due to receive 27 737 MAX aircraft this year and none next year while China Eastern’s plan called for 24 737 MAX deliveries in each of 2019 and 2020. In those two years it would see slightly higher growth of Airbus narrowbody deliveries. But China Eastern’s 2021 plan showed, in theory, little net growth as 10 737 NG retirements mostly offset the delivery of 12 737 MAX aircraft and no Airbus narrowbody deliveries. 
China Southern’s narrowbody fleet plan was similar with high narrowbody deliveries expected in 2019 and 2020 from Airbus and Boeing, but from 2021 Airbus narrowbody deliveries stop while 737 MAX deliveries slow.
The official fleet plans do not reflect recent changes or even a larger variable: the deliveries airlines and airframers actually expect but which are not formally finalised or announced. Xiamen Airlines’ order for six 787-9s was officially signed in July 2016 when the first aircraft was already well into production. It flew home to Xiamen a few months later that December instead of the usual multi-year period between order announcement and first delivery.
There is strong growth from medium-sized airline like Xiamen Airlines, owned by China Southern, as well as Air China’s Shenzhen Airlines, and Sichuan Airlines with varied ownership. But the highest demand for new aircraft come from the Big 3.
The small future fleet plans can partially be attributed to orders being made in line with China’s Five-Year Plans, which set economic forecasts that impact aviation growth. The next plan is due to commence in 2021.
SEATTLE, WA - SEPTEMBER 23:  Chinese President Xi Jinping tours a 737-800 at the Boeing assembly ... [+] line on September 23, 2015, in Seattle, Washington. According to state media and it's local partner, Boeing has reached deals with Chinese firms to sell 300 aircraft and set up a completion center in China, as President Xi Jinping continues his state visit to the United States. (Photo by Mark Ralston - Pool/Getty Images)
Getty Images