NEA waits for a proven winner in 2020 race 
 With help from Nicole Gaudiano and Michael Stratford

Editor's Note: This edition of Morning Education is published weekdays at 10 a.m. POLITICO Pro Education subscribers hold exclusive early access to the newsletter each morning at 6 a.m. Learn more about POLITICO Pro's comprehensive policy intelligence coverage, policy tools and services at politicopro.com.

— The National Education Association is taking a "wait-and-see" approach to endorsing its chosen presidential candidate, the labor giant’s president said during a roundtable discussion with POLITICO reporters and editors.

— GOP officials renewed calls for scrutinizing university relationships with China after a Harvard department head was arrested for lying about his ties to the Chinese government.

— Regulators are expected to address the "sudden college closure" scandal during a closed-door Education Department event today.

GOOD MORNING, IT’S WEDNESDAY, JAN. 29. Purdue University dropped a helpful reminder in my inbox this week: Don’t ruin your Super Bowl party by giving everyone the flu. Influenza is still active this season, so stay home if you’re sick. With that, here’s your daily reminder to send tips to today’s host at jperez@politico.com — and also colleagues Nicole Gaudiano (ngaudiano@politico.com), Michael Stratford (mstratford@politico.com) and Bianca Quilantan (bquilantan@politico.com). Share your event listings with educalendar@politicopro.com. And don’t forget to follow us on Twitter: @Morning_Edu and @POLITICOPro.

NEA PRESIDENT LILY ESKELSEN GARCÍA STOPPED BY POLITICO'S HEADQUARTERS IN ROSSLYN, VA., to talk all things 2020. She said her union — the nation’s largest, with 3 million members — needs an answer to an important question before endorsing a 2020 presidential candidate: Who can deliver?

— Teachers want to see how candidates perform in early voting contests in at least Iowa and New Hampshire before conveying their coveted blessing, she said, adding that she won't "bring a recommendation before we see who actually can deliver votes."

— Even so, she said, the most important thing to members is electing a new president in November and there’s not one Democratic candidate who “wouldn't be head over heels better than Donald Trump.”

— The roundtable came as the Iowa presidential caucuses are days away and as a pack of closely grouped Democrats fight for the nomination, with Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) surging in the polls in Iowa and New Hampshire. Read more from Nicole Gaudiano.

FEDERAL AUTHORITIES ARRESTED AND CHARGED HARVARD’S CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT CHAIR for making false statements about research funding he received from the Chinese government — and the case highlights how the government is scrutinizing university relationships with China.

— Charles Lieber, who chaired the university’s Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, allegedly made false statements to the Department of Defense and National Institutes of Health, according to a complaint filed in federal court in Boston. Harvard has placed Lieber on administrative leave.

— Pay attention to how this plays out: Federal officials have warned about attempts by China to exploit U.S. research and steal intellectual property, and the Trump administration has cited threats of foreign government influence as it’s sought feedback from businesses and universities on how to improve American science research. GOP officials were quick to condemn the Chinese government following Tuesday's arrest.

— “The charges show the lengths that China will go for access to top-notch research here in the United States,” Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) said.

— “For years, the Chinese communist government has taken advantage of our educational and research system that encourages collaboration, openness and the sharing of information,” Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) said in a statement.

— “Failures to disclose the receipt of substantial resources, participation in certain types of programs, and dual employment distort decisions about the appropriate use of taxpayer funds and result in hidden transfers of information, know-how and time,” said Kelvin Droegemeier, the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy director, in a statement.

A CONSUMER ADVOCACY GROUP CALLED ON THE CFPB TO REGULATE THE NATIONAL STUDENT CLEARINGHOUSE, the higher education data behemoth that collects information on college enrollment and degree completion about tens of millions of Americans.

— The Student Borrower Protection Center, which is run by former top CFPB student loan official Seth Frotman, urged regulators in a letter on Tuesday to oversee the Clearinghouse like it does other consumer reporting agencies, such as Experian, Equifax and TransUnion.

— Because some student loan companies use data from the Clearinghouse to determine a borrower’s enrollment status and how they should be charged interest, any inaccurate data could lead to higher costs for student loan borrowers, the group wrote in a blog post. A spokesperson for the CFPB did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Read more from Michael Stratford.

A CLOSED-DOOR EDUCATION DEPARTMENT SYMPOSIUM WILL ADDRESS "SUDDEN COLLEGE CLOSURES" TODAY, bringing together regulators to discuss a problem with for-profit colleges that garnered public scrutiny last year.

— Century Foundation thinkers are pitching their latest policy proposals to identify schools at risk of closing and craft better protections for affected students and taxpayers. Another organization report — “How To Stop Sudden College Closures” — argued the Education Department’s financial oversight system doesn’t work, and the agency uses “well-intentioned but ineffective interventions” that escalate a school’s risk of closure.

— Morning Education readers will remember House lawmakers introducing The Stop College Closures Act of 2019, H.R. 4615 (116), which would have built new requirements for accrediting agencies.

— The Education Department said today’s meeting is “the first of its kind in more than a decade,” but it’s closed to the press.

— “We look forward to working more closely with our triad partners to mitigate the risks and potential harm to students associated with school closures, and to work more collaboratively to address other challenges that institutions and students might face in the coming years,” the department said in a statement.

NEARLY TWO DOZEN VETERAN AND MILITARY SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS ARE CONTINUING TO PRESS DEVOS on her administration’s effort to forgive disabled veterans' student loans.

— POLITICO reported last year that the Trump administration suspended the process of forgiving hundreds of millions of dollars in student loans owed by veterans with severe disabilities, despite a presidential pledge the debts would be easily erased. OMB later approved the regulatory fix needed to carry out the automatic loan forgiveness.

— Advocates are demanding that DeVos offer quarterly, in-person updates about potential problems and to “make whole” veterans who were wrongly put in default. Read the full letter, via Veterans Education Success.

REP. RALPH NORMAN (R-S.C.) EXPLAINED HIS OPPOSITION TO A HOLOCAUST BILL, which came within hours of him lamenting on Twitter on Monday that half of millennials can’t name a concentration camp and that most American adults say fewer people seem to care about the Holocaust.

— Norman said in a statement that his vote against the Never Again Education Act, H.R. 943 (116), was motivated by his views on the role of the government and “it’s lack of fiscal restraint,” rather than his views on anti-Semitism, which he opposes.

— “It is my view, that education is a devolved power reserved for the States under the Constitution,” his statement said. “So although I wholeheartedly agree with the need and appropriateness of teaching future generations about the horrors of the Holocaust, I do not believe it is appropriate for the federal government to demand it.”

THE HOUSE PASSED LEGISLATION TO SUPPORT GIRLS' EDUCATION, with bipartisan support.

— The Keeping Girls In School Act, H.R. 2153 (116), focuses on keeping girls in school at the secondary level when they are most at risk of dropping out due to forced marriage, pregnancy or other family pressures, according to a bill summary. The bill, sponsored by Rep. Lois Frankel (D-Fla.), now moves to the Senate.

— A new study in the journal Educational Researcher found that high school GPAs are five times stronger than ACT scores at predicting college graduation.

— The Foundation for Individual Rights In Education is out with its annual “10 Worst Colleges for Free Speech” list.

— President Donald Trump plans to appoint Theresa Mayer, a Purdue University administrator, and Dr. Hussein Tawbi of the University of Texas' MD Anderson Cancer Center, to the president’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology.

— Tom Harnisch is the new vice president for government relations at The State Higher Education Executive Officers Association.

— Coach on Bryant helicopter put "heart and soul" in teaching: Associated Press

— UCF to fire 3 faculty members accused of helping student get Ph.D. in exchange for grants: Orlando Sentinel

— Coronavirus outbreak has come to U.S. campuses: Inside Higher Ed

— Arizona Education Department blunder puts parent names in hands of group that opposes expansion of voucher program: Arizona Capitol Times