Are flights to China canceled due to the coronavirus? See the latest updates for United, Delta and American Airlines 
 Several flights to China on U.S. airlines have been affected by the coronavirus outbreak, with United, Delta and American Airlines issuing extended travel waivers to those scheduled to travel on affected routes. United is also canceling dozens of flights to China, with the White House reportedly considering a ban on all flights to the country.

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) raised its travel advisory level last week to Level 3, the highest level, advising people to "avoid nonessential travel." There have been at least 60 cases of infection reported in 13 countries outside China so far, including five cases in the U.S., the CDC confirmed at a press conference on Tuesday.

On Monday the U.S. State Department also raised its travel advisory to Level 3, warning people to "reconsider travel to China," while the warning level for the Hubei province, home to Wuhan (where the virus was first identified) is at Level 4, the highest level. People are being told "do not travel to Hubei province," the U.S. State Department states.

The number of U.S. airports being screened for the coronavirus has been increased from five to 20, USA Today reported.

United is suspending 24 flights between China and the U.S. for the first week of February, with San Francisco International, Newark Liberty International, Chicago O'Hare International and Washington Dulles International among the affected airports.

"Due to a significant decline in demand for travel to China, we are suspending some flights between our hub cities and Beijing, Hong Kong and Shanghai beginning Feb. 1 through Feb. 8," United said in a statement.

"We will continue to monitor the situation as it develops and will adjust our schedule as needed," the airline added.

Speaking to Newsweek, a spokesperson for United said: "The reductions reflect our significant drop in load factors. Additionally, though we have implemented a temporary reduction, we are still operating flights between the U.S. and China to enable customers to continue to travel between the two countries."

United has issued travel waivers for passengers scheduled to travel to various cities in China, including Wuhan. The waiver allows passengers to change their flight to an alternate route without any additional fee.

"Customers traveling to and from China will need to complete additional health screenings upon arrival and departure," United notes on its website.

The waiver for Wuhan is valid for flights originally scheduled to take place between January 22 and March 29, while waivers for travel to Beijing Capital International Airport (airport code PEK), Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport (CTU) and Shanghai Pudong International Airport (PVG) are valid for flights scheduled between January 24 and February 29. Waivers for United flights to Hong Kong International Airport (HKG) are valid for flights scheduled between January 28 and February 29.

"Refunds are allowed for unflown flights, even for nonrefundable tickets," for flights to Wuhan, Beijing, Chengdu and Shanghai, according to the United website, but the original ticket must have been purchased by January 21 for Wuhan and by January 27 for Beijing, Chengdu and Shanghai, the airline notes.

Customers can submit refund requests through a form at the airline's website. Other terms and conditions apply for the latest travel waivers. See the United website for full details on each affected route.

American Airlines and Delta have also issued travel waivers but have yet to announce any flight cancellations.

American Airlines is offering free cancellations or refunds on flights for Wuhan but your ticket must have been purchased by January 23 and you must cancel your trip before your outbound flight departs. Your flight must have also been booked for travel between January 23 and March 31, the airline states on its website.

Those on American Airlines flights booked for Beijing (PEK) or Shanghai (PVG) can change their flight without a fee if they purchased the ticket before January 24 and were scheduled to fly between January 24 and February 29. They can travel through March 31.

For travelers booked on Hong Kong flights (HKG) with American Airlines, the flight change fee will be waived for those who bought a ticket by January 28, were scheduled to fly between January 28 and February 29, and can travel through March 31.

For all three cities, you are not able to change your departure city or destination and must be booked in the same cabin as your original ticket or pay the difference in full. See the American Airlines website for the full terms and conditions for its travel waivers.

Delta also extended its travel waiver to February 29 following the ongoing coronavirus outbreak. The waiver applies for those booked on flights for Beijing (PEK) or Shanghai (PVG).

"Travelers with Wuhan in their journey are being screened by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control upon arrival to New York, San Francisco, Atlanta, Chicago-O'Hare and Los Angeles, in addition to screenings in China. Other U.S. airports are also reportedly screening passengers who have Wuhan as part of their travel journey," Delta warns on its website.

The ongoing threat of the coronavirus has caused waves of fear across the globe including in the U.S., which is reportedly considering a ban on all flights to China, USA Today reports.

"All options for dealing with infectious disease spread have to be on the table, including travel restrictions," said U.S. Health Secretary Alex Azar.

Talks are ongoing and the White House is reportedly having daily meetings on the outbreak and monitoring flights between China and the U.S., but officials have reportedly decided against the suspension of flights for the time being, according to Reuters.

The International Air Transport Association (IATA) is said to be "closely monitoring developments" on the coronavirus and "actively engaged with the World Health Organization (WHO) Secretariat, ICAO [International Civil Aviation Organization] and the US Centers for Disease Control."

"Airlines are prepared to work with public health authorities when there are outbreaks of communicable diseases with well-developed standards and best practices. IATA will provide further updates as appropriate," it added.

The WHO currently states: "With the information currently available for the novel coronavirus, WHO advises that measures to limit the risk of exportation or importation of the disease should be implemented, without unnecessary restrictions of international traffic."

Newsweek has contacted the White House, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the CDC and the IATA for further comment on the potential travel ban and the latest virus outbreak.

The U.S. government has also warned travelers that it has "limited ability to provide emergency services to U.S. citizens in Hubei province," as all non-emergency U.S. personnel and their family members were ordered to leave the province on January 23.

"Chinese authorities have imposed strict travel restrictions in the area around Wuhan. Travelers should be aware that the Chinese government could prevent them from entering or exiting parts of Hubei province. Travelers should be prepared for travel restrictions to be put into effect with little or no advance notice," it added.