University coronavirus scare as student taken off by medic in hazmat suit 
 A university student was taken off campus by medics dressed in hazmat suits after concerns they may be infected with coronavirus.

The youngster was said to be displaying flu-like symptoms following their arrival from China.

Video recorded at Aston University in Birmingham show the medical worker dressed from head to toe in protective gear at the back of the ambulance.

The university confirmed the incident took place outside halls of residence in Birmingham city centre, on Saturday, January 25.

The student was tested for the illness and was given the all-clear and discharged, Birmingham Live reports.

Aston University said it was continuing to monitor the situation closely and would follow guidance from Public Heath England.

It said in a statement: “A student from the one of the halls of residence on campus was taken to hospital by ambulance on Saturday night.

“We understand the NHS is approaching all cases reporting flu-like symptoms with extreme caution in order to keep their ambulance crews and other employees safe.

"As the student had recently arrived in the UK from China they were tested for coronavirus as a precautionary measure. The test was negative and the student has now been discharged from hospital.

“Aston University takes the health and safety of its staff and students very seriously.

"We are monitoring the coronavirus situation closely and we are following guidance from Public Health England, the World Health Organisation and other relevant agencies.”

The news emerged 24 hours after Drew Bennett, was put into isolation at Birmingham's Queen Elizabeth Hospital.

It happened after he visited his GP after returning from Wuhan - at the centre of the epidemic in China - on New Year's Eve.

Back in Birmingham and feeling unwell, he took to his bed - believing it to be a serious case of the flu. His symptoms eventually subsided and he visited the doctor on Monday, January 27, for an unrelated matter.

There his GP asked if he had visited China and when it emerged he had and subsequently been ill, he was told to return home.

Speaking from his hospital bed, Drew said he was awaiting blood test results.

"I had been in Wuhan on holiday over Christmas and came back to Harborne on December 31.

"Once I got back I was really ill with, what I thought, was a bad case of the flu. At that stage coronavirus hadn't really been mentioned so I thought nothing of it.

"However, when I went to the GP on Monday and he asked as a precaution if I had been to China, he seemed really concerned.

"I was sent home and before I knew it, ambulances and people in hazmat suits had turned up. I'm now in isolation at the QE and just waiting to get my blood test results.

"I don't feel particularly unwell now,  but I've not been 100 per cent  since returning from Wuhan. Since I got over the worst symptoms I've been back to work, shopping, just normal life. It's a really worrying time and not a nice experience."

At least 132 people are dead and more than 6,000 cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in China.