A sleeper of a tax increase 
 Editor’s Note: This edition of Morning Tax is published weekdays at 10 a.m. POLITICO Pro Tax subscribers hold exclusive early access to the newsletter each morning at 6 a.m. Learn more about POLITICO Pro’s comprehensive policy intelligence coverage, policy tools and services, at politicopro.com.

— Democrats campaigning on income inequality issues are talking more about a tax break that generally flies below the radar.

— Another set of talks is opening on altering worldwide taxes in the increasingly digital global economy.

— A Senate probe into a land donation tax credit prompts a new warning and a deadline.

WELCOME TO WEDNESDAY from Morning Tax, with me standing in today as your usual host takes a midweek hiatus. Check in with some tips and info for all of us.

Email: bfaler@politico.com, alorenzo@politico.com, teckert@politico.com and bbecker@politico.com.

You can also reach us on Twitter at @berniebecker3, @tobyeckert, @brianfaler, @aaronelorenzo, @POLITICOPro and @Morning_Tax.

A SLEEPER OF A TAX INCREASE: A handful of current and former Democratic presidential candidates have elevated an idea for higher taxes on rich people that differs from wealth taxes — ending the practice of forgiven capital gains taxes at death – and it’s even gotten backing by Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah). Still, it hasn’t garnered much attention, according to our Brian Faler, who called it “a sleeper issue in Democrats’ campaign to raise taxes on the rich.” Known as stepped-up basis, it lets inheritors reset the value of assets bequeathed to them when that transfer happens at death, ignoring gains from an original date of purchase. That “can allow the wealthy to pass fortunes to heirs tax free,” Brian writes.

It works differently than normal capital gains taxes, which kick in after someone sells an asset like stock for more than the purchase price. The seller is taxed on that gain. But if someone dies and leaves stock or other assets to heirs worth $500,000, for example, that $500,000 is considered the new starting price or “basis” for them, even if the donor paid $100,000 to acquire the assets in the first place. That means no one ends up paying capital gains on the $400,000 increase in value. Selling the inherited assets for more than $500,000 would trigger tax only on the increase from that new basis. Perhaps not surprisingly, former President Barack Obama proposed ending stepped-up basis while in office, but to no avail.

Supporters of eliminating stepped-up basis include former Vice President Joe Biden and Sen. Michael Bennet D-Colo.), who want heirs to inherit an asset’s original basis along with the asset itself. They consider that easier to administer than the wealth taxes pushed by Sens. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.). Romney’s support comes from a tax plan he co-authored with Bennet. But for most Republicans, ending stepped-up basis is a nonstarter largely because of consequences for family farmers and other small businesses, two groups with hard-to-value assets.

PLOTTING NEXT STEPS: Major U.S. tech companies like Google, Amazon, Facebook and Apple have their eyes trained on Paris, where the next round of formal digital tax talks is getting under way today at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The discussions about reshaping some of the global tax landscape on business operations that cross borders after the U.S. and France set aside their fight over France’s digital tax plans, which led to threats of retaliatory tariffs of up to $2.4 billion on French goods from Washington.

Myriad matters remain up in the air, which our Europe-based chief technology correspondent Mark Scott and yours truly summarized. They include “sticky issues like which countries should have the right to tax parts of the digital economy and how other sectors, including automakers and luxury goods, should also be treated in a revamped global tax regime,” we wrote. Governments around the globe want the chance to grab tax revenue from companies doing business within their borders, even if those companies don’t have operations on the ground. A key goal heading into these two days of meetings is to keep all parties at the table — particularly the U.S. and France — and anything more than that would be a bonus.

U.S. negotiators will continue resisting taxes they feel discriminate against U.S. businesses, with the OECD leading talks to set up two notable tax changes – reassigning some taxing rights to market countries where businesses operate but aren’t based and creating a minimum tax level worldwide to minimize evasion. France and most other countries have backed the OECD’s proposals, but the French have said they’d fall back on their existing digital tax if a global deal isn’t reached soon. Should that happen, look for the Trump administration to renew its tariff threat against France and other countries pursuing their own digital taxes.

INVESTIGATIONS RISING: Congressional scrutiny into some questionable tax credits for land donations have ratcheted up yet again, with a contempt threat coming from Senate Finance Committee Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and ranking member Ron Wyden (D-Ore.). They want someone at the center of numerous deals that sell the tax credits to investors to comply by Feb. 25 with a subpoena they served in September. To date, they said they haven’t gotten an adequate response from Robert McCullough, of Georgia, on his activity in syndicated conservation easement transactions, though he’s turned over thousands of pages of material in a federal suit against him.

Should McCullough fail to supply what they want, Grassley and Wyden wrote his lawyer Sean Akins, they will “determine whether it may be necessary to proceed towards criminal or civil enforcement of the subpoena.” The two senators issued six subpoenas in connection with syndicated land easements, in which investors share tax credits for donating land. Critics believe the donations are overvalued, costing taxpayers for inflated credit claims.

Also on Grassley’s watch list now: wrongly claimed tax credits for electric vehicles. But advocates pushing to expand the incentives shouldn’t get too lathered up over his lead role in a letter to IRS Commissioner Chuck Rettig about growth in those wrongful claims. Grassley’s interest is probably more rooted in his long history of fighting fraud than throwing up a roadblock to widening the electric vehicle tax credit, which many Democrats in Congress are pressing, according to an energy lobbyist speaking on condition of anonymity. The Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration last year discovered $72 million in improper claims for the credits, up from $33 million in in 2011. Grassley and the other GOP lawmakers said the credit has “apparently systemic problems” and demanded to know why fraud associated with it has “not only persisted but become even more widespread,” their letter said.

Mea culpa: Morning Tax incorrectly noted in Tuesday's edition that Virginia was considering a potential trillion-dollar gas tax increase. It's actually a potential billion-dollar gas tax increase. Our apologies.

And not only that, it inadvertently put in the wrong link to a Brookings’ Hamilton Project examination of revenue-raising options. Here’s the right link.

TAX BREAK STIMULUS: Thai cabinet officials approved a package of tax incentives as a salve to a slowing economy, partly owing to an expected drop in Chinese tourism due to the expanding coronavirus there, according to a Reuters report. The tax breaks should draw in more than $3 billion in investments and boost growth by a quarter of a percentage point, the article said, citing a government official. Thailand’s tourism officials forecast a drop of 2 million Chinese visitors this year from 11 million last year. “We have to admit that there must be an impact on the overall economy, as tourist numbers fall,” Finance Minister Uttama Savanayana said.

A NEW HIGH: Tax revenue from marijuana sales in Colorado rose to a record level last year, according to state data. The $302 million in pot collections was 12 percent higher than a year earlier, according to Westword. Colorado directs the marijuana revenue to public schools, the state’s general budget, local governments and a cash fund for a variety of programs, including one addressing substance abuse.The 2019 revenue came from about $1.7 billion in dispensary sales over the year. State officials believe the sales and revenue growth will begin leveling out in the years ahead as marijuana legalization expands elsewhere.

The federal deficit will top $1 trillion this year, according to the Congressional Budget Office.

The CBO has lowered its forecast for corporate tax revenue by 4 percent.

Taxes on soda haven’t caught on much nationwide.

IRS rules are expected soon on an expanded incentive for carbon capture and sequestration.

… And Repubicans tried to get out in front of them.

DID YOU KNOW?

Electric vehicles first appeared in the 1800s and by 1900 they accounted for about one third of all vehicles on the road in the U.S., according to the Department of Energy.