U.S., Australia, U.K. And France To Quarantine People Evacuated From China 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	Christmas Island measures 135km² and is home to 1,400 people
DigitalGlobe via Getty ImagesTopline: Australia, France and the United Kingdom have announced controversial quarantine plans for hundreds of people evacuated from Wuhan, the Chinese city at the center of the coronavirus outbreak, while U.S. authorities will screen and temporarily house 201 Americans airlifted to California.
Australia’s prime minister, Scott Morrison, said on Wednesday that the government will attempt to repatriate its 600 citizens in and around Wuhan. 
 If the operation is successful, vulnerable individuals will be quarantined on  Christmas Island—an isolated island located closer to Indonesia than the Australia mainland—and are expected to contribute to the cost of care, authorities said.
Australia has reported seven cases of the pneumonia-like strain, known as 2019-nCoV. The virus broke out in Wuhan in December and has since killed 132 people, with 6,000 infected across 17 countries. There are 9,200 suspected cases.
But there are concerns about the lack of adequate medical, internet and children's facilities on the tiny island, which is best known for housing a  controversial asylum detention centre that is still accommodating a young Sri Lankan family.


Some 201 Americans, including diplomats and their families, were evacuated from Wuhan and will arrive at California's March Air Base on Wednesday, where they will be quarantined for a period of time, Alaska's Health Department said in a statement. Californian health officials are working with the Centre For Disease Control and Prevention.
U.S. Passengers were screened for symptoms before boarding the flight. The plane stopped in Alaska to refuel, where passengers were checked in a quarantine centre at the Ted Stevens International Airport in Anchorage.
Meanwhile the U.K., which is evacuating some 300 of its citizens from Wuhan and Hubei province, will quarantine those returning for a period of two weeks. They could be held at a military facility, the BBC reported.
Flagship airline British Airways has suspended all flights to and from China, while United Airlines and Cathay Pacific have cut back flights.

Key background: Tens of millions of people are locked down in cities across China, most of them in Hubei province. Some villages in China are closed off to outsiders, and stopping those inside from leaving, Reuters reported. Wuhan hospitals are overrun, and transport in many parts of Hubei is also limited. But the accelerated response to try and curb the spread of the rapidly spreading illness may have come too late, as millions left Wuhan for the Lunar New Year holidays before the lockdown was imposed. This has angered some citizens who criticise the government's slow response. Although not as deadly as the SARS in 2002-2003, around 1,000 new cases of nCoV are being reported every day, making it more contagious. Not much is known about this strain, but it is transmitted through droplets from coughing and sneezing, and can be contracted from people who don’t yet know they are ill.
Tangent: A Tamil couple who fled Sri Lanka eight years ago, settled in Queensland for years and had two children there were transferred to the Christmas Island detention centre in August 2019 amid legal wrangling. The decision to house evacuees could mean that the family—Priya, Nades, Kopika and Tharunicaa—and the island’s 1,400 other residents could be exposed to the virus.

Further reading: Everything You Need To Know About The Wuhan Coronavirus Outbreak (Leah Rosenbaum)