Will This Dollar Ever Weaken? 
 King dollar. Who will dethrone it? Surely not the Fed. At least not yet. Despite rate cuts, the ... [+] dollar is up against most emerging market currencies over the last year.
GettyWill this dollar ever weaken? President Trump thinks the only way is to drive real rates down to zero. Or negative. Will the Federal Reserve take that route, just to weaken the dollar?
During the Great Recession, the dollar was supposedly finished. Nobody wanted it. It was as good as toilet paper, the Apocalypse traders and their pundits said. The dying dollar was their version of the “peak oil” theory from 2002. 
And now for the last three years, global investors have been wondering when the dollar would weaken. That is especially true for fund managers invested in emerging markets. A strong dollar is a headwind for them, and a hard sell to bring in new money to emerging market portfolios who tend to underperform when the dollar is too strong. 
The dollar has had the kitchen sink thrown at it, and nothing hurts it. 
Interest rates in the U.S. declined surprisingly last, which tends to make the dollar less attractive to foreign bond buyers. Less demand for dollar assets, like Treasurys, means a weaker dollar. That didn’t happen.
Last year the Fed cut the Federal Funds rate three times instead of expectations for four rate hikes. The dollar responded by strengthening against most emerging market currencies.
“President Trump has managed to be successful at influencing much of the financial markets through policies and tweets, with the sole exception of the dollar,” Steven Li Jen, CEO of London-based Eurizon SLJ Capital, wrote in a note on January 20.
The U.S. dollar – as measured by the Federal Reserve’s Trade Weighted Dollar Index – is up about 9% since the start of 2018. The factors behind the currency’s rally — a rally no one in the emerging market world hoped would happen, at least — are varied. Here are the three main developments, according to BlackRock’s iShares U.S. ETF director, Christopher Dhanraj.
The “carry trade”: Widening growth differentials between the U.S. (strong) and other advanced economies (Europe, weak) have been manifested in interest rates. Eurozone has had negative interest rates, and the U.S. had at least 2% interest rates. European banks could borrow at zero in euros and were basically guaranteed 2% in dollars. This led to the revival of the “carry trade” not just between the euro and dollar, but globally. Dhanraj sees this trend as a key driver of dollar strength.
Dovish central banks: While the Fed hiked in 2018, the rest of the world was either on hold (Europe) or cutting (Brazil, Russia, China...). In 2019, the Federal Reserve reversed course and cut rates, but other major central banks were still cutting so the net impact on dollar demand was unchanged.
Demand for U.S. assets: Global attraction to U.S. based assets is another tailwind for the dollar. Rising protectionism and geopolitical tensions influenced demand for U.S. Treasuries within sovereign bond funds and a preference for U.S. equities among global investors who have been greatly rewarded for putting money to work in the SP 500, Dow and Nasdaq, all at record-breaking highs.

Global investors pour into the U.S. stock market. More demand for dollar-denominated assets means a ... [+] stronger dollar. Plus, commodities are not helping. Oversupply of soy and natural gas keeps commodities in check, and the dollar strong. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)
Getty ImagesThe dollar has had an impressive run over the last two years. 
Rate cuts caused by trade war uncertainties and low inflation have done nothing to weaken it. 
Emerging market stocks have underperformed the U.S. for the last several years. Ask a foreign fund manager if they think that’s coming to an end and they’ll all say yes. They’ve been saying this now for at least three years.
Over the last five years, BlackRock’s iShares MSCI Emerging Markets (EEM) ETF has gained 9%. If you had invested in State Street’s SPDR SP 500 (SPY) instead and just let it ride, you would have gained 59%.
The dollar’s “safe haven” role also helped during the trade war. No economy is as big and as strong as the U.S. economy. Strong economy, strong dollar. 
The dollar’s strength and high stock market valuation may limit its upside, but no one expects the rug to be pulled out from under King Dollar. 
“The dollar is the high yield safe haven now, especially within the G10,” says Emily Weis, macro strategist for State Street. “Dollars are doing well in risk-on and risk-off these days. All of a sudden something that used to have carry appeal, like the Brazil real, is losing out to the dollar.”
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell. Some people think the Fed is not afraid to take the Federal ... [+] Funds rate to zero, or below. After seeing the effects of negative rate policies in Europe and Japan, is the Fed still considering it?  (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
Getty ImagesTrump will have to deal with it. He thinks a weaker dollar will make U.S. exports more attractive. 
Emerging market investors will have to deal with it, too. 
Brazil bank Itau (ITUB) and jet maker Embraer (ERJ) over the last two years have been duds, falling 26% and 34%, respectively, in dollar terms while the iShares MSCI Brazil (EWZ) is up 0.3%. Over the last five years, the big picture Brazil ETF is up 31.3% while Itau is up 3.8% in annualized returns. 
Some countries have done better than the U.S. , like China, despite dollar headwinds. Alibaba (BABA) stocks rose 31.6% in the last year, beating the iShares MSCI China (MCHI) ETF, which rose 7.1%.
Dhanraj says BlackRock is overweight emerging market equities, but says investors have to pick their spots rather buy the entire emerging market index. Brazil is more of a dollar story. China is not. 
Additionally, with the Fed no longer looking to hike interest rates in an election year, and the potential for a recovery in global growth if the coronavirus doesn’t turn out worse than the SARS epidemic of 2003, then the dollar may finally weaken. 
“It’s been very popular to call the top in the dollar,” says Weis.  “We think it’s overvalued, too. And you got slower growth here that’s not bullish for the dollar. But you can’t hold this thing down, so we’re not calling a top yet.”