GRAINS-U.S. wheat, corn futures weaken; soybeans close to unchanged 
 CHICAGO, Jan 29 (Reuters) - U.S. wheat futures fell nearly 1% on Wednesday on a round of follow-through selling after Tuesday's technical setback, traders said.

The weakness in wheat spilled over to the corn market, which also faced some profit-taking after a higher opening during the overnight trading session.

Soybean futures were hovering close to unchanged after six straight days of losses. Bargain buyers protected soybean prices from further declines but weak export demand continued to add pressure.

"The market is still awaiting signs of an increase in Chinese demand as promised in the signing of the Phase 1 trade deal," brokerage Allendale Inc said in a note to clients.

Concerns about export demand also weighed on wheat due to concerns that the most-active Chicago Board of Trade soft red winter wheat contract's recent rally to its highest since August 2018 made U.S. offerings too pricey for overseas buyers who had ample options from competing countries.

At 9:09 a.m. CST (1509 GMT), Chicago Board of Trade March soft red winter wheat was down 4-3/4 cents at $5.65 a bushel.

Traders were watching to see if the contract could hold technical support at its 30-day moving average, a level it has not dipped below since Dec. 12.

CBOT March corn was off 1-1/2 cents at $3.85 a bushel and CBOT March soybeans were 1/2 cent higher at $8.95-1/2 a bushel.

The spread of the coronavirus has added to doubts about Chinese demand after an absence of fresh purchases in the wake of the "Phase 1" trade deal signed by Washington and Beijing on Jan. 15.

"The coronavirus story became a black swan event that over-shadowed that emerging optimism, leading fund managers to again short the commodity sector until more is known about its impact on global demand," Arlan Suderman, chief commodities economist at INTL FCStone, said in a research note to clients.

The death toll from the virus outbreak rose to 132 on Wednesday with nearly 1,500 new cases, heaping pressure on Beijing to control the disease. (Additional reporting by Gus Trompiz in Paris and Naveen Thukral in Singapore; Editing by Marguerita Choy)