Novogratz: It’s January 1999. Stocks Set For ‘Parabolic’ Move Higher 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	Former hedge fund manager Michael Novogratz, currently the CEO of a cryptocurrency investment firm, says stocks are poised to rally dramatically this year. 
NEW YORK, NY - SEPTEMBER 20:  CEO Galaxy Investment Partners Mike Novogratz speaks during the 2018 ... [+] Yahoo Finance All Markets Summit at The Times Center on September 20, 2018 in New York City.  (Photo by John Lamparski/Getty Images)
Getty Images“It looks like we’re set up for these parabolic moves,” Novogratz said in a speech at the Context Miami conference today. A “phenomenal mix of fiscal and monetary policy” makes it difficult to create any kind of selling pressure for equities. Central banks around the world are easing. “There’s this sugar high going on that’s not going away,” Novogratz said. Markets have shrugged off exogenous events like Iran and the coronavirus. “It’s shocking how well the market trades” with these events, which are not yet completely resolved. “There is money that wants to be put to work.”
Novogratz equates the current situation facing markets to January 1999, right before internet stocks started a historic rally. Like then, the business cycle is in its last, and most dramatic, stage of growth. “It’s January of 1999...We feel very similar to that,” said Novogratz. “It definitely feels like we’re going in to this last surge of this monster rally.” There are also technical indicators that point to rallies in equity markets worldwide. “You have these chart patterns: in Europe which is just breaking out .... and Japan, that are really explosive.” 
This “spectacular, last leg of the rally” may culminate with Donald Trump’s reelection in November. As reelection starts looking more likely, “the market trades up into that. It will be buy the rumor, sell the fact.”
What will ultimately end the rally — and likely the business cycle — will be inflation. “The only thing that’s going to stop this paradigm that you’re all investing in and getting wealthier every year, is inflation showing up.” For now, there is virtually no chance of this happening in the near term. “There’s no chance that the Fed raises rates and inflation goes higher in an election year. So you’ve got easy money, certainly through the election.”
Novogratz, 55, started his career at Goldman Sachs before joining Fortress Investment Group in 2002. He is currently the CEO of Galaxy Investment Partners.