Brit died of coronavirus almost 6 years ago after catching it from relative 
 A British patient died of coronavirus after catching it from a relative nearly six years ago - and was treated at the same hospital where a suspected patient is being quarantined.

Drew Bennett is currently being quarantined at Birmingham's Queen Elizabeth Hospital after flying back from Wuhan with flu-like symptoms on Monday.

The 31-year-old is being treated for suspected coronavirus and is the second person to be treated at the hospital for the disease.

Doctors at the hospital first faced the virus six years ago when an unknown patient died from the killer bug.

The gender of the patient is not yet known but the virus killed the Brit on April 13, 2014 - six years before the current outbreak.

Medics rushed the patient to hospital in Manchester alongside a relative who also had symptoms of the coronavirus.

Confirming the patient's death in a statement at the time, the University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust said: "A patient being treated for novel coronavirus at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham has died.

"The patient passed away on Sunday morning in the hospital’s critical care unit and the hospital extend its sympathies to the family.

"The patient was already an outpatient at QEHB, undergoing treatment for a long-term, complicit unrelated health condition.

"The patio was immune-compromised and is believed to have contracted the virus from a relative who is being treated for the condition in a Manchester hospital.”

The Hospital Protection Agency, along with hospital bosses, also investigated whether any other relatives had caught the virus.

It concluded: "QEHB does not intend to hold a press conference or make any of its experts available for interview at this time."

China confirmed cases of coronavirus jumped to over 6,000 today and the death toll rose to 132.

The United Kingdom has not yet identified a case of the virus but around 30 people have been tested.

Government officials announced evacuees from Wuhan will be held for two weeks in quarantine before being allowed to let back into the country.

It is likely that they will be held at a military base but this has not yet been confirmed.

There are around 200 British nationals in Wuhan at the moment and passengers may be asked to sign a contract before they board the plane home.

The Foreign Office advised against "all but essential" travel to mainland travel China and British Airways have halted flights to the country until March.