RSPI Readies 50 Isolation Rooms for Suspected Coronavirus Patient 
 TEMPO.CO, Jakarta - The Infectious Diseases Hospital (RSPI) Dr. Sulianti Saroso has prepared 50 rooms in anticipation of suspected coronavirus (nC0v) patients, although the distribution of the coronavirus Indonesia has yet to be identified.RSPI President Director Mohammad Syahril stated that the hospital currently has 11 isolation rooms that have been set to handle patients suspected of having contracted the coronavirus. However, the number of isolation rooms can be increased to 50, if the need arises.“So, we have prepared everything if an outbreak were to occur. We've readied 50 beds. It means that Indonesia is ready, but we do not expect that to happen," Syahri said at the hospital located in Tanjung Priok, North Jakarta, on Wednesday, January 29, 2020.RSPI Sulianti Saroso is one of the referral hospitals set to isolate patients suspected of being infected with the coronavirus. Syahril stated that one isolation room could only be occupied by one patient.Patients who are suspected of being infected with the coronavirus are required to undergo two laboratory examinations to ascertain whether or not they have contracted the virus. The examination consists of a blood check and sampling from the throat using the swab method.A patient suspected of being infected with coronavirus is now being treated at RSPI since Monday, January 27. The patient was a referral from Pondok Indah Hospital, who previously underwent treatment for seven days.Syahril went on to say that the results of the first laboratory examination will come out tomorrow morning. "Two days later the results of the second lab," he said. "It (the patient's condition) is actually good, but there's no certainty (whether the patient is infected with coronavirus or not)."Previously, RSPI Sulianti Saroso also treated one woman suspected of being infected with the virus. The patient experienced similar symptoms and recently traveled to Hainan, China. On Saturday, January 25, RSPI Public Relations Official, Wiwik Hukmit, confirmed that the patient was not infected with the coronavirus.The coronavirus was first detected in Wuhan, China. Until Wednesday afternoon, 29 January, there have been 5,974 cases of coronavirus, with 132 being deceased. The victims originated from mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, North America, Australia, and other Asian countries.LANI DIANA WIJAYA | DIO SUHENDA (Intern Translator)