Economic impact of coronavirus 'could exceed Sars'; Apple hits record high - business live 
 10.08am EST
10:08



Afternoon summary


Time for a quick recap, as investors await the Federal Reserve interest rate decision in four hours time.

Concerns over the coronavirus continue to weigh on market today. A top Chinese economists has warned that the outbreak could cause more economic damage than Sars in 2003.

Hong Kong’s stock market tumbled as it reopened after the Lunar New Year. The Hang Seng fell almost 3%, with property companies and gambling firms based in Macao leading the rout.

European markets, though, are calmer after two days of volatility.

A swathe of companies have been cutting their activity in China, with several airlines including British Airways freezing flights. Car firms, such as Toyota, are leaving factories suspended until mid-February.

Apple’s share price has hit a new alltime high, after beating Wall Street forecasts again. It’s now worth a sizzling $1.4tn, as much as every company on Germany’s DAX 30.

UK house pries have risen, as political uncertainty eases (somewhat).

Rail operator Northern has been nationalised, after the government lost patience with its shoddy service.






















10.00am EST
10:00




There are reports that American Airlines and Lufthansa are now cancelling their services to China, following British Airways’ lead this morning.























9.48am EST
09:48




Apple’s stock surge means the company is worth over $1.4tn -- more than every company on Germany’s DAX index combined (as flagged earlier).

Amanda Lyons, investment manager, GAM, has delved into last night’s numbers -- and concluded that not everything is as rosy as you’d think.

She points out that strong iPhone sales drove the strong revenue growth -- probably existing iPhone users shifting to the new, more expensive, iPhone 11s.





 

With iPhone still accounting for over 60% of total revenue it shows how much the company still relies on this product for growth and that outperformance elsewhere is not enough to fuel future growth.




But service revenue growth missed expectations, at 17% per year.





 

Although Services revenue is impressive, it is intricately liked to Product sales. In the earnings release (and again on the call), Apple highlighted that the installed base has reached 1.5bn devices. It is hard to see that this segment can grow to become the driver of the company and overtake the iPhone. 




And what about Apple’s TV?





 

“Almost no colour was given regarding the Apple TV+ launch; in its current form, it does not feel that TV+ will be the new Netflix. Its content offering is significantly lighter than competitors and is relying on gaining subscribers through the service being bundled for free for a year with the purchase of any Apple hardware. Without significant investments in content, it is hard to see many of those ‘free’ subscribers converting to paid subs at the end of the year.
























9.38am EST
09:38



Apple hits record high after strong results


Boom! Apple’s share price has hit a new record high, at the start of trading in New York.

Apple has gained more than 2% to above $326 per share, which means it has more than doubled in the last year.

The tech giant is cheering investors after reporting a 9% jump in revenues to $91.8bn last night, a record. This lifted net earnings to $22.2bn (also a record).










  Apple’s share price over the last year Photograph: Bloomberg TV











  Apple’s share price today Photograph: Bloomberg TV























9.35am EST
09:35




Boeing has taken another big hit from the 737 Max crisis.

The US aircraft maker has doubled the likely cost of fixing the problem, to over $18bn, in its new financial results today. This has dragged Boeing into its first annual loss since 1997.

More here:























9.01am EST
09:01




Back in the markets, the oil price is rallying following reports of an attack on Saudi Arabia’s oil facilities.

Not much detail yet, but Brent crude rallied by over 1.2% to $60.25 per barrel.






















8.31am EST
08:31



Northern Rail nationalised


Back in the UK, another rail operator has been taken out of private hands into the tender care of the government.

Northern Rail, which operates services (badly) in the North of England will be nationalised on the first of March. The government has run out of patience over the litany of problems - from cancelled trains and carriage shortages to faulty ticket machines and a lack of drivers. 

Passengers have also been unimpressed that it has still used the old Pacer trains -- constructed from busies in the 1980s, and due to be phased out years ago.


It should be a popular decision:


Here’s the story:






















7.53am EST
07:53



China economist: Coronavirus could cause more economic damage than SARS











  A security officer directs a man past a thermal imaging camera at a subway station in Beijing today Photograph: Mark Schiefelbein/AP


Newsflash: A Chinese government economist has warned that the Wuhan coronavirus may cause more economic damage than the SARS epidemic.

Zhang Ming, an economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (part of Beijing’s State Council) predicted that China’s annual growth rate could drop below 5% in January-March quarter.

The official target is 6%; some economists have predicted that the economy could actually shrink during the quarter, as firms halt production and transport links are shuttered.

Writing in Caijing magazine, Zhang said the coronavirus’s economic impact could be “significantly bigger” than Sars, which slowed growth back in 2003. That is based on the forecast that the outbreak, which began in Wuhan’s meat market late last year, will peak in mid-February and end by April.

For comparison, Pantheon Economists estimates that SARS dragged China’s quarterly growth rate down to 1.8% in April-June 2003, from an average of 2.8%.

Zhang also predicted that Beijing could pull on the stimulus levers to prevent the economy weakening -- perhaps by cutting interest rates or encouraging banks to lend more money (by cutting the amount of capital they have to hold).


























7.38am EST
07:38













  A McDonald’s restaurant in the Chinatown section of New York. Photograph: Mark Lennihan/AP


Just in: Fast food giant McDonalds has beaten Wall Street forecasts, achieving more than 100 billion dollars of annual sales for the first time.

The burgers, fries, salads and fizzy pop provider has posted a 5.9% jump in sales in the last quarter, better than expected and the strongest result since 2010.

For 2019 as a whole, systemwide sales increased 4% to $100.2 billion.

McDonald’s President and Chief Executive Officer Chris Kempczinski says:






 

“2019 marked a year of significant milestones for McDonald’s - including surpassing $100 billion in Systemwide sales and achieving our highest global comparable sales growth in over a decade.”







Updated
at 7.40am EST