Coronavirus in humans is 96 per cent identical to strain found in BATS 
 THE coronavirus found in humans is nearly identical to that found in humans, Chinese scientists have said.

New research reportedly shows there is an up to 96 per cent uniformity, which appears to confirm the suspicion that bats were the cause of the outbreak.

Since then footage and images have been circulated purporting to show people eating the Chinese delicacy.

So far 132 people have been killed and nearly 6000 people infected by the outbreak of the virus, which began at a market in the city of Wuhan.

Now, tests carried out by Chinese Academy of Sciences Wuhan Institute of Virology have found the coronavirus found in bats and humans are nearly identical, the official Xinhua news agency reports.

According to Xinhua this represents an important stepping stone in further research into the virus.

It said the research was published on the bioRxiv open source platform last week but has now been made public.

Bat soup is reported to be an unusual but popular dish particularly in Wuhan, where the virus is understood to have originated at an open air fish market.

Previous deadly outbreaks of SARS and Ebola were also believed to have originated in the flying mammal.

Earlier research from  the Chinese Academy of Sciences, the People’s Liberation Army and Institut Pasteur of Shanghai first raised the possibility bats could be the source.

In a statement, the researchers said:  The Wuhan coronavirus’ natural host could be bats … but between bats and humans there may be an unknown intermediate."

Scientists at Peking University have also claimed that the deadly virus was passed to humans from bats - via snakes.

Snakes are sold at the Huanan Seafood Market in central Wuhan and may have jumped to other animals before passing to humans, they say.

The market is home to stalls selling a wild variety of animals destined for the dinner table.

A video of influencer Wang Mengyun munching on a fruit bat with chopsticks went viral following the outbreak of coronavirus in Wuhan.

She was forced to apologise and claimed she was eating the dish while visiting Palau, a South Pacific island.