Coronavirus outbreak: American cuts China flights, joining United, foreign carriers 
 American Airlines became the latest domestic airline to curtail flights between the U.S. and China Wednesday as carriers worldwide react to a growing and deadly coronavirus outbreak.

American will suspend flights from Los Angeles to Shanghai and Beijing from Feb. 9 through March 27, according to spokesman Curtis Blessing. He said the airline's reservations team would contact affected travelers directly by email or phone.

American will continue its flight schedules from Dallas-Fort Worth to Shanghai and Beijing, as well as from Los Angeles and Dallas-Fort Worth to Hong Kong, Blessing said. The airline operates 10 flights daily to and from Hong Kong, Shanghai and Beijing.

"We will continue to review our flight schedules to ensure we can accommodate the needs of our customers and will make updates as needed," he said in a statement.

American's suspension lasts nearly seven weeks. On Tuesday, United said it would cut 24 flights between the U.S. and China for the first week of February. Delta remains the only domestic airline with nonstop flights from the U.S. to China that has not adjusted its schedule.

British Airways and Asian budget carriers Lion Air and Seoul Air also are suspending all flights to China as fears spread about the outbreak, which has killed more than 130 people and infected more than 6,000 in mainland China and abroad.

Several other airlines including Finnair, Hong Kong-based Cathay Pacific and Singapore-based Jetstar Asia are reducing the number of flights to the country as demand for travel drops because of the outbreak.

British Airways said Wednesday it is immediately suspending all flights to and from mainland China after the U.K. government warned against unnecessary travel to the country amid a virus outbreak.

The airline operates daily flights from London’s Heathrow Airport to Shanghai and Beijing. It took the measure a day after Britain’s Foreign Office updated its travel advice on China, warning against “all but essential travel” to the mainland, not including Hong Kong and Macao.

CDC:Americans should avoid all nonessential travel to China

State Department warns Americans: 'Do not travel' to Wuhan, China

Air Seoul, a budget airline, became the first South Korean airline to suspend its fights to mainland Chinese destinations other than Wuhan, stopping its flights to the cities of Zhangjiajie and Linyi.

Lion Air said it has canceled more than 50 flights to China well into February. The flights are from five international airports in Denpasar, Manado, Surabaya, Jakarta and Batam to 15 airports in China.

Lion Group spokesman Danang Mandala Prihantoro said the suspension would be phased in gradually and would continue until further notice.

The epicenter of the outbreak is Wuhan, a city of 11 million people, but during their Tuesday press conference, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services officials said there were 60 cases in 13 other countries outside of China, including five in the U.S.

China has cut off access to Wuhan and 16 other cities to prevent people from leaving and spreading the virus further.

The White House is considering a ban on flights between the United States and China, Trump administration officials said Tuesday.

These are the 20 U.S. airports screening for the coronavirus:  Here's what it entails

United Airlines operates roughly 12 flights per day from the U.S. to mainland China and Hong Kong. The planned reduction would mean three or four fewer flights per day.

Delta Air Lines currently operates six daily nonstop flights between the U.S. and Beijing and Shanghai. American Airlines operates 10 flights daily to and from Hong Kong, Shanghai and Beijing.

All three domestic airlines serving China already have issued flight waivers for travelers who don't want to travel there, allowing them to postpone or cancel plans without the usual penalty.

Coronavirus spurs flight cancellations: United becomes first US airline to scrap some China flights amid coronavirus travel warnings

Coronavirus: Screenings to expand to 15 new US airports; CDC warns against travel to China