Oil Resumes Path Lower as Demand Concerns Exist 
 © Reuters.  
        
    
    

        By Peter Nurse and Kim Khan 

Investing.com - Oil prices dropped again Wednesday, reversing earlier gains, with a large drop in U.S. inventories and talk of an attack on an oil facility in Saudi Arabia unable to overturn the underlying negative sentiment surrounding the commodity.

By 10:10 AM ET (1510 GMT),  futures were down 0.7% at $53.12 a barrel. U.K. , the global crude benchmark, was down 0.4% at $58.59 a barrel.

The American Petroleum Institute reported late Tuesday that nationwide stockpiles fell by 4.27 million barrels last week, compared with market expectations for a 1.29 million barrels build. 

Official government figures are due later on Wednesday.

Additionally Bloomberg reported Wednesday Yemen’s Houthi rebels saying they had attacked Saudi Aramco’s Jazan facility in southern Saudi Arabia with missiles and drones. Jazan is the site of a 400,000 barrel-a-day refinery.

However, these hits to global supply have been unable to keep oil prices on the black amid concerns remain about the extent of the hit to Chinese demand for crude from the deadly coronavirus.

“Price action since last Tuesday does suggest that the market is pricing in a fairly sizeable demand impact as a result of the Wuhan virus,” said ING analysts Warren Patterson and Wenyu Yao at ING, in a research note.

“China has gone from making up a little over 7% of total global products demand in 2003 to 13.5% in 2018. So clearly any demand hit in China and wider Asia will have a more meaningful impact on the oil market than in 2003 (when the SARS virus hit),” they added.

British Airways became the first global airline to cancel flights to China in a bid to curtail the spread of the virus which has affected over 6,000 people, and resulted in 132 deaths, so far.

The impact on the price of oil of the move is uncertain, but it won’t be positive.

“It all depends on how many airlines cancel the flights and for how long. But if BA is cancelling, very likely that Air France, KLM, Lufthansa, Swiss, and others would follow suit. All the sudden, you can see a 15-20,000 b/d drop in demand just on Europe-to-China route,” said Javier Blas, the chief energy correspondent at Bloomberg, in a tweet Wednesday.