'Public are not to be trusted' after Mrs Brown's Boys wins best comedy award 
 It's expected that award seasons brings both celebration and disappointment for fans and celebrities alike, and the National Television Awards (NTA) were no different.

Mrs Brown's Boys won the award for best comedy, and whilst the cast were overjoyed, many people weren't.

The comedy show went up against After Life, Fleabag, Derry Girls, Sex Education and came out triumphant.

After the announcement, Twitter was divided, and ultimately became a gold mine for an endless amount of people comparing the win to various other world catastrophes.

One person said: "Forget Coronavirus, Brexit, bushfires or tensions in the Middle East... Mrs Browns Boys won an NTA ahead of @rickygervais After Life! Stop the planet... I want to get off."

But that wasn't the only person to compare the win to Brexit, another person said: "Brexit, Boaty McBoatface, and now Mrs Brown's Boys winning an NTA over Fleabag, Derry Girls, Afterlife and Sex Education. The public are not to be trusted."

And: "This is worse than Brexit. This country cannot be trusted with anything."

Creator Brendan O'Carroll who also plays his drag persona Agnes in the show, stood alongside his wife Jennifer Gibney - Cathy Brown - as they accepted the award.

The show is based off of the popular theatre production 'Mrs Brown's Boys', and follows the lives of Agnes and her family.

Fans were mostly confused and almost outraged on how Mrs Brown's Boys swiped the win over Ricky Gervais' comedy drama Afterlife, claiming the Netflix show was more deserving of the award.

In response to their win, Ricky tweeted: "What a f*****g bunch of losers. Congratulations to Mrs Brown’s Boys. Democracy always wins.

"Be nice in defeat and know that you are still the best fans in the world. Thanks to everyone who voted."

But some fans of the show were thrilled with the result, saying: "Can someone tell me what the problem is. #MrsBrownsBoys won an #NTA what on earth are haters hating on this for?! What’s the big deal! It’s as if we as a nation cannot be happy about anything anymore!"

After a decade of hosting the awards, Dermot O'Leary stepped down from his position handing it over to David Walliams.