Bitcoin And Gold Suddenly Soar—Is $10,000 Bitcoin Back? 
 Bitcoin has soared over the last 24-hour trading period, adding some 4% to climb back above the psychological $9,000 per bitcoin mark and is fast approaching $10,000—a level not seen since late September. 
Meanwhile, the gold price, a so-called safe haven asset that bitcoin has moved in tandem with in recent weeks, has also climbed as investors fret over the spreading coronavirus. 
The bitcoin price has recently begun moving in tandem with gold, raising hopes bitcoin has begun ... [+] acting as a so-called safe-haven asset. 
AFP via Getty ImagesSome bitcoin and crypto analysts have pointed to geopolitical uncertainty being the cause for bitcoin's latest move higher, though others are unwilling to classify bitcoin as a safe-haven just yet. 
"Bitcoin and the other largest crypto-assets are surging this week, moving within touching distance of three-month highs this morning as investors look to alternatives to equities," said Adam Vettese, market analyst at brokerage eToro, in a note earlier today. 
"Having rallied over 12% in three days, [bitcoin] hit a peak of $9,389 overnight, its highest level since early November when it nudged over $9,400. This could prove to be the next significant hurdle of resistance, although if we do see a pullback, seeing the price make another higher low and maintain the 2020 uptrend will be encouraging for bulls."
"There does seem to be a lingering sensation that bitcoin may be transitioning into a traditional safe haven asset," added Mati Greenspan, the founder of analysis group Quantum Economics. "[Bitcoin] doesn't seem like it's quite there just yet, but there are clear indications that it's at least moving in this direction."
The bitcoin price has climbed to year-to-date highs but is still far from its 2019 peak. 
CoinbaseMeanwhile, others have bravely called the bottom of the market—suggesting we could be at the beginning of bitcoin's next great leap higher. 
"[Bitcoin bears] all now want to sit and buy a break back to $6,000 or $5,000 and they’ve missed the bottom—and during that bottom, I think you had a lot of people accumulate with strong hands," veteran trader Peter Brandt told bitcoin and crypto news site Cointelegraph last week.