UK presses China to let dual nationals join coronavirus exodus 
 The British government is urgently pressing Beijing to allow dual nationals to leave China after public outcry over families being split up during the coronavirus evacuations.

Only British passport holders who do not also hold Chinese nationality are being allowed to leave. The British embassy in Beijing is urging the Chinese to let dependents of British nationals and British-Chinese dual nationals leave too.

“Our priority is to keep British nationals and their family members together and we have urgently raised this with the Chinese authorities,” a Foreign Office spokesperson said on Wednesday.

The foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, raised the issue of dual nationals with his Chinese counterpart on Tuesday, but the Chinese government has maintained its stance.

A number of families have spoken out about the prospect of being split up during the evacuation process. Sindy Siddle travelled with her husband, Jeff, and nine-year-old daughter, Jasmine, to Hubei province to spend the lunar new year with her family. The family, from Prudhoe, Northumberland, are now facing their “worst nightmare” as Sindy has been told she will not be allowed on the evacuation flight as she has a Chinese passport.

Jeff Siddle said: “Having to leave Sindy in China would be the worst thing that anyone could be put through. How am I going to tell Jasmine that her mum has to stay behind?”

Separately, Natalie Francis, 31, a teacher from York, was told that her three-year-old son, who has a Chinese passport, would not be allowed to leave.

Chinese authorities have imposed the same restrictions on other countries evacuating citizens out of the country, including the US. China does not recognise dual nationality, meaning any citizen who wants to get a passport from another country is supposed to give up their Chinese one.

Many people unofficially hold two passports by acquiring a second nationality without informing the Chinese authorities. But in recent years, driven partly by an anti-corruption campaign, there have been greater official efforts to crack down on dual nationals.

Official advice from the UK’s Foreign Office says: “If you are British and Chinese, you are likely to be regarded by the Chinese authorities as a Chinese citizen, even if you travel to China on a British passport. If you enter China on a Chinese passport, we may not be able to help you if you have a problem.”

Along with the US, Japan also began evacuating citizens out of the region on Wednesday.

Meanwhile, British Airways has suspended all flights to and from mainland China. Some other commercial airlines are still operating out of airports in the country, but with Hubei province in lockdown, people in that area have no option for leaving other than evacuation flights.

UK officials have confirmed that evacuated Britons will be placed in quarantine for 14 days upon their return.