Starbucks’ Big China Push Gets Interrupted By The Coronavirus. How It’s Coping 
 Starbucks' China push is temporarily interrupted by the coronavirus. Photographer: Nelson ... [+] Ching/Bloomberg
BLOOMBERG NEWSStarbucks’ two biggest markets are the United States and China. And while things seem to be humming at home, it now faces a big headache in dealing with the fast-spreading coronavirus.
Still, Starbucks is wasting no time. On Tuesday, it disclosed that it is temporarily closing half its 4,300 China stores, which normally serve 7 million customers a week. 
The business impact from the closures ultimately will depend on the length they stay closed, and the number of stores that eventually close, Starbucks officials said during the company’s quarterly earnings call. 
Starbucks shares fell $2.39 in Wednesday morning trading, to $86.21.
If it wasn’t dealing with the coronavirus, Starbucks had planned to raise its full-year earnings guidance. Now, it will keep its outlook the same as it deals with the crisis that has interrupted travel to and from China.
Starbucks also hopes to open 600 more stores this year in China, where new stores account for 80 percent of its revenue growth there. It opened 167 stores there last quarter.
In addition to its own outlets, Starbucks has more than 100,000 distribution points for its brand in China, including stores that sell its packaged coffee such as its Via instant brand.
The Starbucks rapid response to the coronavirus has several elements. 
First, Starbucks has proactively closed stores on its own, and shut them in conjunction with local governments, said John Culver, its group president for international operations.
It is offering delivery from stores that stay open, which could keep things humming even when customers don’t want to go out. About 3,500 of its stores had delivery available, before the virus crisis forced the temporary closings.
Delivery orders make up about 9 percent of its Chinese business, while about 6 percent of customers there use its mobile order and pay through its app. 
Meanwhile, Starbucks will be adjusting hours in the stores that stay open, and adjusting the menu items that are available depending on its supply network. 
In some areas, Starbucks might be able to consolidate the operations of several stores into one store that stays open, Culver said.
“This is a very complex situation,” he said. “We’re assessing it each and every day.” 
But, Culver said Starbucks had faced crises before. “As a company, no one is in a better position to navigate this.” 
Starbucks officials say they’ll assess the impact of the coronavirus situation in early March, and plan to provide an update of its impact on the quarter and the full year.