Stock market news live: Stocks hold slim gains as Trump signs USMCA into law 
 U.S. stocks rose and pointed to a second straight day of gains as investors monitored a slew of corporate earnings releases, the latest coronavirus developments and the Federal Reserve for its monetary policy decision out later this afternoon.

After over a year of tortured negotiations, President Donald Trump signs the successor agreement to NAFTA into law on Wednesday, sealing a major campaign promise that reworks ties between the North American trade partners.

Stocks are holding on to slim gains at midday. Here’s where the major benchmarks stand:

The three major U.S. stock indices opened higher Wednesday morning after a batch of corporate earnings results came in stronger than expected.

Shares of Apple (AAPL) were among the big advancers, with the stock up nearly 3% around market open to an all-time high. The tech giant reported earnings results Tuesday afternoon that topped consensus estimates, driven by a jump in iPhone revenue on the heels of a strong holiday purchasing season.

Here were the main moves in markets, as of 9:34 a.m. ET:

General Electric (GE) shares popped more than 8% in early trading Wednesday after the company’s 2020 industrial free cash flow guidance topped expectations, suggesting its turnaround plan was picking up steam.

GE sees full-year adjusted industrial free cash flow between $2 billion and $4 billion, above expectations for $2.2 billion. This closely watched metric of efficiency rose to $2.3 billion in 2019, beating the company’s own guidance for $0 to $2 billion. Fourth-quarter adjusted earnings per share of 21 cents on revenue of $26.2 billion also topped consensus estimates.

McDonald’s (MCD) delivered adjusted earnings of $1.97 per share on revenue of $5.35 billion, topping expectations on both metrics. Global comparable same store sales increased 5.9%, versus a rise of just 5.3% expected, and U.S. comp sales also topped estimates with a 5.1% rise.

The U.S. trade deficit for goods widened for the first time since August in December, the Commerce Department said in its advanced report Wednesday.

The goods trade deficit increased to $68.3 billion in December from $63 billion the prior month, rising above consensus expectations for an increase to $65 billion, according to Bloomberg consensus data. This comprised a 0.3% increase in exports and 0.2% rise in imports.

The rise in exports was driven in part by a 2.8% increase in capital goods shipped overseas. Imports of industrial supplies including oil rose 9.5% in December.

Beleaguered aircraft giant Boeing (BA) reported its first annual loss since 1997 as costs mounted in operational disruptions and customer concessions amid the near year-long grounding of the 737 Max.

The company’s full-year GAAP loss per share totaled $1.12, while its core non-GAAP loss per share was $3.47 on revenue of $76.6 billion. In the last three months of the year alone, core losses per share were $2.33 on revenue of $17.9 billion, representing a sales decline of 37% over the same period last year.

Boeing’s expected costs associated with the grounded 737 Max have risen to more than $18 billion, or double what had been previously disclosed. On top of the more than $9 billion in costs already reported, Boeing said it was taking a $2.6 billion pretax write-down to compensate airline customers. It also said its deferred production costs would rise by $2.6 billion, and it reported an additional $4 billion in expected “future abnormal costs” as it eventually re-starts the 737 Max program.