Latest travel advice for Thailand as coronavirus outbreak kills 132 people 
 THE death toll for coronavirus has surged to 132 people, with travel warnings issued by countries across the globe.

Although China remains most heavily affected by the deadly bug, there are now 14 people infected in Thailand amid fears it can't be stopped.

Unlike China, there are currently no travel bans in place for Thailand.

However, the country's proximity to China and its popularity as a tourist destination for Chinese nationals means it's a high risk destination.

Thailand was the first country to confirm a coronavirus case on January 12, and is currently the worst affected nation outside of China.

With the number of people infected now standing at 14, the country's health minister Anutin Charnvirakul has admitted the country “is not able to stop the spread” of the virus because there are so many Chinese travellers there.

The UK government has warned: "There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus.

"The virus originated in Wuhan City, Hubei Province but cases have been confirmed in other parts of China and the region, including Thailand.

"You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the local authorities."

The US State Department has not updated their travel advice for Americans and there are no current warnings regarding coronavirus from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).



Travel continues to remain uninterrupted in Thailand with flights and public transport running.

However, airports including Bangkok, Chiang Mai and Phuket will be scanning passengers who arrive from China.

Passengers will be thermal screened for signs of the disease.

The virus, for which there is currently no vaccine, started in Wuhan in China.

It has since spread to a number of countries around the world, including the US, France, Australia, Japan and South Korea.

A number of tourist attractions in China have closed to prevent the virus spreading through large crowds.

Shanghai Disneyland, the Forbidden City and the Great Wall of China are all closed until further notice.

China are rushing to build a 1,000-bed hospital in just 10 days for people with coronavirus.

It is thought up to 33 million people are on lockdown as cities in China close all public transport in and out.

Videos being sharing on Chinese social media show people collapsing on the streets of Wuhan which as been called coronavirus ground zero.