British man risks life to stay with Chinese wife in coronavirus epicentre 
 A British man living at the centre of the deadly coronavirus outbreak is risking his life to stay with his Chinese wife after authorities refused to let her fly home with him.

British people will be evacuated from Wuhan on Thursday and quarantined for two weeks in a UK military base, as the global death toll hits 132 and the deadly virus infects 6,000 people.

Benito Crolla, 38, and his mother Joan, 75, could be on the flight – but he says they have ‘no choice’ but to stay with Chinese wife Maddie Wu, 38, after she was banned from leaving the country because she is a Chinese national.

The former pilot, who met his wife on Chinese dating app Tantan after he went over for a holiday, says he would fear for Maddie’s safety if he were to leave her.

He also claims she is a key figure in looking after Joan, who suffers from dementia and needs regular care.

He told Metro.co.uk: ‘The coronavirus is spreading fast and that’s why we want to be on a plane and out.

‘At this stage, the flames are around the windows and now’s the time to run. Maybe you get a little singed on your way out, but at least you’re not stuck.

‘But we have no option but to stay in Wuhan. My wife is my mother’s financial and welfare power of attorney.

‘If I take my mother back to England, I’ve suddenly lost 50% of my care team because we look after her together.’

The Wuhan resident has slammed UK and Chinese authorities’ handling of the coronavirus crisis, claiming his family has been ‘abandoned and lied to’, with mixed messages and poor communication.

The former pilot says he received an email from the Foreign Office on Tuesday that stated the whole family would be able to be airlifted out.

However, their excitement fell flat when a second email on Wednesday implied it would not be possible for Chinese nationals to leave with their spouses.

After calling every government department they could – including the FCO, the Foreign Affairs Department of Wuhan Government, the Foreign Affairs Department of Hubei and the Airforce Government Office – the couple found themselves in a bureaucratic nightmare.

Benito claims the FCO informed him that Chinese authorities are refusing to let Chinese nationals leave the country – but the local Chinese government blamed the British.

After being handed back and forth and having his ‘messages ignored’ by the FCO, he says he wants to tell the UK government ‘this is not the way to treat your people’.

He said: ‘The FCO is absolutely useless. They’re not giving any information, they’re not doing anything. I’m sure they are working hard, but when it comes to actually keeping us informed, they are clearly clueless.’

Benito has called for Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab’s resignation over his handling of the conronavirus outbreak, claiming ‘they should have evacuated the British more than a week ago because it was obvious what was happening’.

He said: ‘The government has been ridiculously slow and right now, they don’t have a plan. They never had a plan.

‘They managed to evacuate all of those Thomas Cook passengers – they had a plan for an airline going bust, but it’s quite clear they never had any plan for some kind of viral outbreak, despite SARS 20 years ago.

‘This is something I feel Dominic should resign over. As much as I love the Conservatives, this is not the way to treat your people when they’re overseas.

‘My mother is 75, she has dementia, she’s paid taxes all her life and the only thing that we’ve had from the British government is hostility of state here.’

The FCO told Metro.co.uk that under Chinese jurisdiction, only British passport holders who do not hold Chinese nationality are permitted to leave through assisted departure.

They added they were ‘urgently pressing the issue to allow dependents of British nationals and British-Chinese dual nationals to leave’.

A spokesperson said: ‘The safety of British nationals is our top priority and we have been in close contact with British nationals and their family members who might need help.

‘Our priority is to keep British nationals and their family members together and have urgently raised this with the Chinese authorities.’