UFC 248: Weili Zhang Isn’t Laughing At Joanna Jedrzejczyk’s Coronavirus Joke 
 This photo taken on August 7, 2019 shows Chinese mixed martial arts (MMA) fighter Zhang Weili posing ... [+] after a training session in Beijing. - Zhang can become China's first UFC world champion if she beats title-holder Jessica Andrade of Brazil in their strawweight showdown at the end of August. (Photo by GREG BAKER / AFP) / TO GO WITH MMA-UFC-CHN-China-Zhang-women,INTERVIEW by Helen ROXBURGH        (Photo credit should read GREG BAKER/AFP/Getty Images)
AFP/Getty ImagesUFC Women’s Strawweight Champion Weili Zhang didn’t take kindly to an insensitive joke about the coronavirus from her UFC 248 opponent, Joanna Jedrzejczyk. 
In a image that has been removed from Jedrzejczyk’s story, the 32-year-old posted a fake fight poster wearing a gas mask:

The coronavirus has claimed the lives of more than 100 people following an outbreak in the central city of Wuhan. The outbreak has forced a lockdown of several cities and the quarantine of millions of people in the region. 
To date, there are almost 6,000 cases of people infected with the virus. 
Clearly, this is no laughing matter and Jedrzejczyk was out of line with her post. Weili responded to the challenger’s inappropriate barb with an eloquent tenacity that screams, “I’m the adult in the room.”
Her IG post reads:
To make fun of tragedy is a true sign of ones character. People are dying, someones father, someones mother, someones child. Say what you want about me if it makes you feel stronger but do not joke about what’s happening here. I wish you good health until March 7th. I will see you soon.

Weili already has a massive following in China. Her handling of this situation only confirms the qualities that are partially responsible for her growing popularity. She captured the title in her last fight when she upset and dethroned Jessica Andrade via first-round KO in Shenzhen. 
Weili now would seemingly have more motivation to defeat her opponent and retain her title. Jedrzejczyk is one of the greatest champions in the history of the relatively new division. She won the title in 2015 when she defeated the inaugural champion Carla Esparza via second-round TKO. 
Jedrzejczyk claimed a Performance of the Night bonus for that fight, and went on to successfully defend the title five times before losing it to Rose Namajunas in November 2017. However, her fortunes have changed. Since losing the title, Jedrzejczyk is 2-2 with a loss to Namajunas in the rematch, a defeat at the hands of UFC Women’s Flyweight Champion Valentina Shevchenko, and wins over Tecia Torres and Michelle Waterson. 
To put it plainly, Jedrzejczyk needs this win over Weili in a major way to keep from falling dangerously out of title contention. 
She may or may not have helped herself by supplying the champion with some bulletin board material.