Coronavirus outbreak: China to complete 1000-bed hospital in under a week 
 It will take less than a week. A new 34,000 square metre hospital built in the middle of an epidemic.

Marshalling all of the compulsory and voluntary labour a one-party state can muster, the Fire God Mountain Hospital in Wuhan is touted to open by Saturday, adding 1000 beds to a city that has had its hospital system overrun.

A second will follow. Nearby, the Thunder God Mountain Hospital is scheduled to add another 1300 beds by Monday.

Intensive care units, supply warehouses and ambulance washing rooms will soon fill the steel frames.

READ MORE:

 * NZer in Wuhan awaits evacuation: 'I just don't want to spread the virus'

 * Coronavirus: World airlines suspend China flights, cut services on virus fears

 * New Zealand will partner with Australia to get stranded Kiwis out of Wuhan

 * Coronavirus: China building a whole new hospital to treat patients

Demand for beds is soaring in the city at the centre of the outbreak, which already has at least 3554 confirmed cases of the mysterious virus. 1500 more people were diagnosed with the illness across China on Wednesday as the death toll hit 132.

China State Construction photographs showed masked workers turning carparks into wards as the rest of the city was locked down.

Pre-fabricated rooms were brought into the city, along with electrical switchboards and 5G internet antennae.

Wuhan Construction's general manager of road and bridges, Zhang Chongxi, told state media that the hospitals will be built with 24-hour labour.

"We've mobilised all the workers left in Wuhan to work in shifts to ensure round-the-clock construction," he said.

Elsewhere, conditions in the city are deteriorating. Supermarkets are running out of produce, streets are desolate and residents have taken to calling out of apartments towering above the 11-million person city in unison in a show of solidarity.

They are anxious, bored and restless. Empty hotels have taken to forcing staff to do group exercises in abandoned lobbies at the same time as overworked doctors collapse in virus-hit hospitals.

The delays in identifying the threat of the virus, which will hit China and world economic growth, is already likely to cost one local official his job.

"We haven't disclosed information in a timely manner and also did not use effective information to improve our work," Zhou Xianwang, the Mayor of Wuhan told state broadcaster CCTV.

Aware of the political risks, China's President Xi Jinping, who met with with World Health Organisation Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Tuesday, is keen to let his people know he is taking control.

"This time, I have been personally directing and personally deploying," state broadcaster CGTN reported Xi as saying.

"The Chinese government attaches great importance to this new virus, because the purpose of government is to put people's lives and physical health at the top priority."