World on alert as novel coronavirus started from Wuhan spreads across the countires 
 신종코로나 확산에 전 세계 '초비상'…바이러스 유입차단 총력



Now, there's a new warning from the U.S. State Department, urging Americans to reconsider travel to China as this emergency grows.

And other countries are reporting more confirmed cases... raising fears over the deadly virus.

Choi Jeong-yoon reports.

The world is on edge as the novel coronavirus breaches more national borders and governments are taking tough countermeasures to protect their nationals.

At least 17 countries and territorial entities outside mainland China have now reported confirmed cases.

The epidemic is spreading fast internationally,...with Thailand's number of confirmed cases now standing at 14.

With the most confirmed patients outside of China,... Bangkok has unveiled plans to screen all arrivals from China for symptoms of the coronavirus.

Hong Kong has at least eight confirmed cases.

Hong Kong on Tuesday announced plans to restrict cross-border travel between the city and mainland China.

The deadly virus is also hitting Europe.

France on Tuesday confirmed its 4th case in an elderly Chinese tourist.

France's Health Ministry said the patient, who is hospitalized in Paris, is about 80 years old and gravely ill.

Concerns are spiking as the possibility of human-to-human transmission of the virus is becoming more and more of a likelihood.

Japan and Germany have both confirmed cases in patients who have never been to Wuhan, the epicenter of the virus.

Japan has at least 7 confirmed cases,... and the first confirmed patient a male bus driver in his 60s has never visited Wuhan, but drove two groups of Chinese tourists from Wuhan earlier this month.

Germany is up to at least 4 confirmed patients,... and the country's first confirmed patient a 33-year old German male did not visit China, but was in a meeting with a Chinese female,... who later turned out to be infected.

The virus has also spread to North America,... Canada has confirmed its third case in a man in his 40s who visited Wuhan.

In the U.S., at least 5 people have been diagnosed with the coronavirus, all of whom recently traveled to the Chinese city.

As a countermeasure, White House officials say they are considering suspending flights to and from China and has issued a level four warning against traveling to Wuhan...as well as warning people to avoid non-essential travel to any part of China.

The U.S. also wants Beijing to be more transparent.

"We are urging China more cooperation and transparency are the most important steps you can take toward a more effective response. Beyond that, all options for dealing with infectious disease spread have to be on the table, including travel restrictions."

The U.S. also said it will expand screening of travelers arriving from Wuhan to 20 airports and land crossings,... points of entry that account for up to 90 percent of incoming visitors from China.

Choi Jeong-yoon, Arirang News.



#World #coronavirus #Wuhan 



Arirang News Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/arirangtvnews