Dire photos show empty shelves inside a Wuhan Walmart as coronavirus fears grow 
 Walmart shoppers in China are sharing images of empty shelves devoid of fresh produce, meat, and dairy as the retailer struggles to keep up with high demand in the face of the coronavirus. Though several restaurants and retailers have temporarily closed stores to prevent the spread of the deadly virus, all 400 Walmart stores across China remain open, including in the city of Wuhan."Things are getting desperate," wrote one Twitter user regarding the lack of food at Walmart. Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.Walmart stores in China are struggling to meet the rising demand for food and essential items as fearful shoppers flock to the retailer to stock up while the coronavirus continues to spread throughout the region. 



A series of social media posts from the past 24 hours depict empty shelves devoid of staples like produce, dairy, and meat at Walmart locations in the cities of Wuhan and Zhuhai. "Things are getting desperate," wrote Twitter user @ChinaMidnight.—SLEEPY Head 👧 (@mishzguafa) January 29, 2020—Kevin O’Shea 🇨🇦🇯🇵 (@MadForMaple) January 24, 2020 Though several restaurants and retailers have temporarily closed to prevent the spread of the deadly virus, Walmart has kept all Chinese stores open since the outbreak, a Walmart spokesperson told Business Insider on Friday. The company currently operates 400 stores in China across 170 cities, as well as 19 distribution centers. The spokesperson said the company is cooperating with local officials and health experts to "closely follow" and monitor the situation. "We are actively reinforcing good hygiene practices in all of our Walmart and Sam's Club locations in China and reminding our teams that the health and safety of our associates and customers is our top priority," the spokesperson told Business Insider.



Still, transportation lockdowns in the country may be preventing suppliers from quickly and efficiently restocking products, according to a source close to the matter. Additionally, the source said that quarantines are inhibiting employees from coming to work in certain areas, contributing to the barren shelves, the source said.Here's a closer look inside a Walmart in Wuhan on Wednesday afternoon local time.