York mum in Wuhan told she can't bring child home with her 
 Natalie Francis, 31, is currently working as an English teacher in the area - which is in lockdown due to the outbreak of the coronavirus.




  She has been offered a flight back to Britain - but told she cannot bring her young son Jamie with her.



  Natalie said the reason given is that Jamie has a Chinese passport - despite being a British citizen.



  The Press understands that the Foreign Office is working behind the scenes urgently pressing the Chinese to allow dependents of British nationals and British-Chinese dual nationals to leave.



  Under Chinese jurisdiction, only British passport holders who do not hold Chinese nationality are permitted to leave through assisted departure.



  Natalie said that she was very concerned about her son’s health, adding: “He contracted pneumonia in 2018 and the virus seems to affect those with pre-existing conditions.



  “I am worried that there may still be an effect from last winter.



  “He is more likely to get it than someone who is healthy.



  “We weren’t too worried before but now that the virus is affecting people of all ages, it is becoming much more concerning and we are worried for Jamie.”



  She added that she was still hopeful that she will be able to bring Jamie home to Britain.



  Natalie said that she, her husband and her son had been cooped up in her apartment for the last two weeks, and have only left three times to get supplies.



  She added: “I am so worried about leaving my son. I am trying to get him a flight, and remain hopeful.



  “Myself and my husband both think it would be best for his health to go back to Britain.



  “I don’t know anyone who has contracted the virus but we have been inside for days, the atmosphere is very scary and everything is becoming overwhelming and stressful.”



  Natalie added she has spoken to the Foreign Office several times over the last two days but has had no further contact from them since they told her that her son could not return to Britain.



  A spokesman for the Foreign Office said: “The safety of British nationals is our top priority and we have been in close contact with British nationals and their family members who might need help.



  “Our priority is to keep British nationals and their family members together and we have urgently raised this with the Chinese authorities.”



  It is understood that China is only allowing the US and the UK to take mono nationals.



  Natalie said that she would not return without her son.



  MP for York Central, Rachael Maskell, said: “The rise of the coronavirus is deeply troubling.



  "As a York MP, I will do all I can to help any constituent and their family to come home safely.



  "I urge anyone impacted by this epidemic to get in touch with my office so we can assist.”