Here’s Every State And Country With A Confirmed Coronavirus Case (Updating) 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	The majority of cases are in China (nearly 6,000), where the virus is believed to have started.
GettyTopline: As the coronavirus outbreak continues to grow⁠—⁠having apparently started in China, it’s now at least 19 countries—here’s a running list of every U.S. state and country reporting cases of the virus:
In the U.S., according to the Centers of Disease Control (CDC): Arizona, California, Illinois and Washington state all have confirmed cases.
In Europe: CDC also reports that France and Germany have confirmed cases.
The Washington Post reported Wednesday that Finland also has its first confirmed case.
In Asia: World Health Organization (WHO) reports that China, Japan, Cambodia, Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, Malaysia, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam and South Korea all have confirmed cases.
The majority of cases are in China (nearly 6,000), where the virus is believed to have started.
In the Middle East: The United Arab Emirates has four confirmed cases. 
Elsewhere: Australia and Canada also have confirmed cases.

What to watch for: Whether the World Health Organization (WHO) declares an international public health emergency for coronavirus when it reconvenes its emergency committee Thursday. 
Key background: Some experts believe the disease originated from a seafood market in Wuhan. In an effort to contain the virus, Chinese officials have quarantined Wuhan and multiple surrounding cities, restricting the travel of millions of people. Other countries have enacted their own travel restrictions or evacuations, including Japan, the United States, Australia and France. North Korea, which says the outbreak is a matter of “national existence,” is not accepting foreign visitors. Some corporations have also banned or restricted travel for employees, while companies like McDonald’s, Disney, Starbucks, IKEA and more have temporarily closed their doors in affected areas. Multiple airlines and cruise companies have also modified their service schedules to restrict travel.
Further reading: 
Everything You Need To Know About The Wuhan Coronavirus Outbreak (Leah Rosenbaum)
Coronavirus Hits Big Business: These Companies Are Cutting Operations And Restricting Travel To China As Disease Spreads (Sergei Klebnikov)
TikTok Used To Spread Misinformation About The Coronavirus (Dawn Chmielewski)