The Hill's 12:30 Report: Impeachment trial moves to senators' questions 
 To view past editions of The Hill's 12:30 Report, click here: http://bit.ly/1M1mIfw

To receive The Hill's 12:30 Report in your inbox, please sign up here: http://bit.ly/1Tt4hqN

--> A midday take on what's happening in politics and how to have a sense of humor about it.*

The Hill's 12:30 Report: Impeachment trial moves to senators' questions | Roberts to read questions to managers, lawyers | GOP looks to avoid fight over witnesses | Trump hits Bolton over 'nasty' and 'untrue' book | 'Let Bolton Testify' cakes sent to Republican senators | Sights and sounds from NH | Biden looks to pull off Granite State upset | 'Lesser-known' candidates debate in Manchester | Trump takes victory lap as he signs USMCA deal | Bloomberg shakes dog's snout in awkward viral video

ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL IN NEW HAMPSHIRE

Biden pulls an 'But that's not all, folks!' in the Granite State:

Former Vice President Joe Biden Joe BidenPerry delegation talking points stressed pushing Ukraine to deal with 'corruption' GOP senator airs anti-Biden ad in Iowa amid impeachment trial Biden photobombs live national news broadcast at one of his rallies MORE campaigns in Salem, N.H.

Via The Hill's Amie Parnes and me from Salem, N.H., several months ago, former Vice President Joe Biden and his aides had mostly written off New Hampshire to neighboring state candidates Sens. Bernie Sanders Bernie SandersNew campaign ad goes after Sanders by mentioning heart attack Biden on whether Sanders can unify party as nominee: 'It depends' Steyer rebukes Biden for arguing with supporter he thought was Sanders voter MORE (I-Vt.) and Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth Ann WarrenBiden on whether Sanders can unify party as nominee: 'It depends' Overnight Health Care — Presented by Philip Morris International — HHS has no plans to declare emergency over coronavirus | GOP senator calls for travel ban to stop outbreak | Warren releases plan to contain infectious diseases Biden lines up high-profile surrogates to campaign in Iowa MORE (D-Mass.) -- but with a string of polls showing Biden in second, he and his campaign are showing a renewed interest in the state. http://bit.ly/38Pwvca

Interesting perspective from The University of New Hampshire's Dante Scala -- if Biden does well in Iowa, it could change the game: "I don't think he has a lot of ride-or-die-with-Joe support up here the way that Bernie does," Scala said. "But I think there's a reservoir of good will toward Biden among New Hampshire Democrats, especially older ones, that could help him."

What to expect in New Hampshire: http://bit.ly/38Pwvca

Meet your 2020 presidential primary ballot -- that you've likely never heard of:

Thirteen presidential candidates -- seven Democrats and six Republicans -- debated last night at The New Hampshire Institute of Politics event, "Lesser-Known Candidates Forum."

Here's a list of the 13 candidates who participated: http://bit.ly/2UcP59M

Photo of the seven Democratic candidates: http://bit.ly/3aUFVEO

Photo of the six Republican candidates: http://bit.ly/2vps6hs

A few more quotes from the forum, via Politico's Trent Spiner: http://bit.ly/2uK7ccw

HERE ARE SOME OF MY FAVORITE MOMENTS:

One candidate on the top tier: "One of the candidates running is a communist … another one's a square, another one belongs in an old folks' home..." He was then cut off for going over on his time, so we didn't get to hear where he was going with that. :/

Another candidate on marijuana: "I've never seen anyone OD smoking on joint. They just eat my Doritos," a candidate said, raising his voice on "Doritos" for emphasis.

Another on why he is running for president: "I'm not here to challenge President Trump Donald John TrumpCNN's Don Lemon explains handling of segment after Trump criticism NPR reporter after Pompeo clash: Journalists don't interview government officials to score 'political points' Lawyer says Parnas can't attend Senate trial due to ankle bracelet MORE. I love him and I respect him ... I'm only running for president because the spirit of the living God has ordered me to do so on Jan. 28, 2020."

Another on how opioids can be helpful but also misused: "I'm not sure what brand of water is here, but I could drown somebody with it if I misused it."

Another candidate's message to Trump: "Mr. Trump, one thing to you because I'm sure you're watching. Do not play with me."

I appreciate the specific ask: A candidate asked for 40 seconds to respond to another candidate.

It's Wednesday -- 5 days until Iowa and 13 until New Hampshire! Filing from the campaign trail in New Hampshire, I'm Cate Martel with a quick recap of the morning and what's coming up. Send comments, story ideas and any political anecdotes to keep me entertained to cmartel@thehill.com -- and follow along on Twitter @CateMartel and Facebook.

Did someone forward this to you? Want your own copy? Sign up here to receive The Hill's 12:30 Report in your inbox daily: http://bit.ly/2kjMNnn

I CANNOT WAIT to hear John Roberts earnestly read some of these questions aloud:

Now that the House impeachment managers and President Trump's lawyers have finished opening statements, senators are taking over for two days of asking questions. What to watch today: http://bit.ly/2O6WGCY

Logistics for this portion of the trial: Chief Justice John Roberts, who is presiding over the trial, will read senators' prewritten questions out loud and then allow the lawyers to respond.

When the trial starts today: 1 p.m. EST, lol like it's ever started at another time. Here's today's livestream link: https://cs.pn/2U5Qzmn

Spotted -- Mitch McConnell Addison (Mitch) Mitchell McConnellTrump allies throw jabs at Bolton over book's claims GOP confident of win on witnesses Collins Senate bid threatens to spark GOP rift in Georgia MORE scrambling to teach everyone "High School Musical" choreography

'Together, together, together, everyone!':

Via The Hill's Jordain Carney, Senate Republicans are scrambling to avoid a messy fight over calling additional witnesses in the impeachment trial. http://bit.ly/2S2BeAx

First: It could cause "a free-for-all on the Senate floor with conservatives vowing to subpoena figures like former Vice President Joe Biden, his son Hunter Biden and the anonymous whistleblower."

Where Republicans stand on the impeachment vote: "GOP senators said there were 'no deals,' or significant decisions made during Tuesday's meeting, and leadership does not yet have a lock on the 51 votes to block witnesses. But some, including Sen. John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), argued it was time to move on, while stressing discussions would continue."

WHAT WE LEARNED FROM THE CLOSED-DOOR REPUBLICAN MEETING YESTERDAY:

Republicans seem confident about having enough votes to block additional witnesses in the impeachment trial. http://bit.ly/2GzqjJ2

SooOoo, not to be picky or anything -- because cake is cake -- but are we talking chocolate or vanilla?:

Mitt Romney Willard (Mitt) Mitt RomneyGOP confident of win on witnesses Collins Senate bid threatens to spark GOP rift in Georgia Republicans signal renewed confidence they'll avoid witness fight MORE is the man of the hour:

SPOTTED -- LEV PARNAS IS LEANING INTO IT:

Lev Parnas, an indicted associate of President Trump's personal attorney Rudy Giuliani Rudy GiulianiLawyer says Parnas can't attend Senate trial due to ankle bracelet Perry delegation talking points stressed pushing Ukraine to deal with 'corruption' Giuliani calls Bolton a 'backstabber' over Ukraine allegations MORE, stopped outside of the Russell Senate Office Building to pose for selfies. Photo: http://bit.ly/2GAgquC

We did it! We did it! We did it! Yay! Lo hicimos!:

President Trump just took a victory lap by signing the United-States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) on the South Lawn of the White House. http://bit.ly/2RYWEOH

In Trump's words: "Today, we are finally ending the NAFTA nightmare and signing into law the brand new US-Mexico-Canada Agreement ... The USMCA is the largest, fairest, most balanced and modern trade agreement ever achieved. There's never been anything like it."

Some controversy: "[T]here was a notable absence of some of the key House Democrats who were instrumental in negotiating with the Trump administration on the final agreement on the deal and securing its passage on the House floor with broad bipartisan support."

Don't expect any sponsored posts for Bolton's book on Trump's Instagram anytime soon:

President Trump lashed out at former national security adviser John Bolton John BoltonTrump allies throw jabs at Bolton over book's claims GOP confident of win on witnesses Giuliani calls Bolton a 'backstabber' over Ukraine allegations MORE this morning, slamming his new book as "nasty" and untrue." http://bit.ly/2RCtiXG

Trump tweeted: "For a guy who couldn't get approved for the Ambassador to the U.N. years ago, couldn't get approved for anything since, 'begged' me for a non Senate approved job, which I gave him despite many saying 'Don't do it, sir,' takes the job, mistakenly says 'Libyan Model'on T.V., and ... many more mistakes of judgement, gets fired because frankly, if I listened to him, we would be in World War Six by now, and goes out and IMMEDIATELY writes a nasty & untrue book. All Classified National Security. Who would do this?" See Trump's tweets -- the dumpster fire of his Twitter users' replies are always entertaining: http://bit.ly/2O8ls5S

Um, did Michael Bloomberg Michael Rubens BloombergPoll: 56 percent of Democrats say billionaire politicians more likely to cater to special interests Support for Biden, Sanders ticks up nationally: poll Tim Gunn endorses Bloomberg, joins his LGBTQ+ leadership council MORE just shake hands with a dog's mouth…?:

You must watch this video: http://bit.ly/2tbocIw

The House and Senate are in. President Trump and Vice President Pence are in Washington, D.C.

4 – 5 p.m. EST: First and last votes in the House. The House's full schedule today: http://bit.ly/38PDguw

8 a.m. EST Thursday: The Hill is hosting an event, "A More Perfect Union?" Details and how to RSVP: http://bit.ly/2NX2miT

11 a.m. EST: President Trump participated in a signing ceremony for the U.S-Mexico-Canada trade agreement. Vice President Pence attended. Livestream: http://bit.ly/38M0UIe

NOW FOR THE FUN STUFF...

And because you made it this far, here are dogs having a jumping contest: http://bit.ly/314hNer