As coronavirus spreads, researchers race to develop a vaccine 
 Less than two weeks after a new coronavirus was first reported in China, scientists published a dizzying string of more than 34,000 letters: the molecular blueprint of the respiratory illness.

Scientists around the world immediately seized on those letters, the virus’s sequenced genome, in an effort to create a vaccine that could help halt the spreading pathogen. Researchers are hoping to produce a vaccine ready for clinical trials in mere months, significantly trimming down a process that, in some cases, can take up to a decade.

“Basically, we’ve gotten a lot better at doing this,” Alex Greninger, a virologist at the University of Washington in Seattle, said of genome sequencing efforts. “The CDC already had a diagnostic test ready by the time the first patient that they tested came in. That’s amazing and it’s really thanks to the sharing of that initial genome.”

The race is on for scientists to develop responses to the new coronavirus pathogen. As of Wednesday, the virus had sickened almost 6,000 people and killed 132. Cases of the virus have been reported in 14 countries outside of China, including five confirmed cases in the U.S.

Scientists and research organizations around the world sprang into action after the first coronavirus case in the Chinese city of Wuhan was reported to the World Health Organization on Dec. 31, 2019. They say efforts to develop vaccines for previous coronavirus outbreaks combined with new technologies are shortening what remains a lengthy and arduous process.

Scientists at the Peter Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity in Melbourne, Australia, have produced a lab-grown version of the new coronavirus that they say could help speed the development of a vaccine and diagnostic test. And Johnson & Johnson announced Wednesday that it would use the same technologies from their lab’s development of an experimental Ebola vaccine to produce vaccine candidates for the new coronavirus.

Work on a vaccine is also underway at the National Institutes of Health. Anthony Fauci, director of the NIH’s National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases has said that the first phase of clinical trials could begin within three months. A consortium of scientists in the U.S. and Canada, led by Karla Satchell at Northwestern University, is also sifting through the virus’s genetic code for clues about how to stop it from spreading.

On Jan. 23, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, an organization founded in 2016 to foster the development of new vaccines for emerging infectious diseases, announced that it was funding three separate approaches to develop vaccines against the coronavirus.

The coalition partnered with two biotech companies — the Pennsylvania-based Inovio and Massachusetts-based Moderna Inc. — and the University of Queensland in Australia with the aim of advancing potential vaccines to clinical trials in about four months.