Deadly virus reaches B.C., but so far not Okanagan 
 Despite the deadly new coronavirus arriving in B.C., Interior Health Authority officials say there’s no need to raise the alarm in the Okanagan.
“We have no confirmed cases in Interior Health (Southern Interior) and we continue to work with our provincial partners to monitor the situation as it progresses,” said a statement issued Tuesday by Interior Health communications officer Susan Duncan.
“We would only speak if there were confirmed cases.”


        A third case of a new coronavirus that’s behind deaths in China has been confirmed in Canada by health officials in B.C., who say a Vancouver man in his 40s tested presumptively positive after a business trip to the Chinese city of Wuhan.
Dr. Bonnie Henry, provincial health officer, said the man returned to Vancouver last week and had symptoms about 24 hours later, when he voluntarily isolated himself at his home and called a clinic.
“The risk of spread of this virus within B.C. remains low at this time,” said provincial Health Minister Adrian Dix in a news release.
“All necessary precautions are being taken to prevent the spread of infection. We have multiple systems in place to prepare for, detect and respond, in order to prevent the spread of serious infectious diseases in the province.”
The new strain of coronavirus, 2019-nCoV, originated in the Chinese province of Hubei, which includes the cities Wuhan, Huanggang and Ezhou.
Risk in B.C. is considered low because in order to catch coronavirus, someone would have had to have travelled recently to Hubei and been exposed to the infection or would have had to have been in contact with someone who had recently travelled and been exposed.
This is a particularly severe strain that so far has a death rate of 1.8% based on the almost 6,000 cases and 106 deaths reported across China.
That’s high for a virus that causes cold- and flu-like symptoms.
Millions of people have been quarantined in Hubei, expats have fled the region and travel advisories are in place.
Despite the quarantine and people trying to get away from the infection, it has spread to 13 countries, including the U.K. and Australia.
Coronavirus is an upper respiratory infection with symptoms similar to cold and flu, such as cough and sore throat, runny nose, headache and fever. Symptoms appear two to 10 days after contraction of the virus.
Coronavirus spreads just like a cold or flu, via tiny droplets in the air after someone infected coughs or sneezes.
As such, Interior Health recommends people practise good respiratory etiquette. That means coughing and sneezing into your elbow sleeve to prevent spray from flying all over the place.
This helps prevent the spread of cold and three strains of flu as well as the unlikely coronavirus.
Cold, flu and coronavirus also spread if you touch a doorknob, screen or keyboard that someone with an infection recently used and you then touch your nose or mouth.
Interior Health also recommends not touching your face unless you’ve just washed your hands, regular handwashing as a precaution and wiping down commonly used services regularly.
The man in Vancouver infected with coronavirus is doing well at home and no members of his family have shown any symptoms as they are being monitored by health officials, Henry added.
A second test will be done at the National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg and results are expected in the next two days, Henry told a news conference Tuesday.
“Given the history of travel and the contact that this person had in Wuhan city, and they were showing symptoms, we are confident that this is truly a case of this novel coronavirus,” she said.
The patient spent most of his time in the port city of Guangzhou and visited Wuhan, the city at the centre of an outbreak in that country.
Chinese authorities report the novel virus is believed to have originated at a market in Wuhan, where meat was sold alongside live animals.
The man who returned to Vancouver contacted a primary health-care provider on Sunday to say he had travelled to Wuhan.
He had no symptoms on the plane back to Vancouver, said Henry, who expects more people in B.C. to test positive for the virus.
Several people have been assessed in the province and the risk of the virus spreading remains low, she said.
“We need to be very careful about listening to rumours and third- and fourth-hand information,” said Henry, adding people should rely on credible sources for information.

        “It’s very challenging, and what’s concerning to me, having been in the city of Toronto during the SARS outbreak and being one of the people responding there, is how easily those rumours can lead to discrimination, inappropriate discrimination against people, and I think we need to take all those rumours with a grain of salt and recognize they are just that — rumours.”
Dix said the province will provide ongoing information to the public and all the necessary precautions are being taken, adding social media has allowed rumours to spread quickly, something that didn’t happen during the SARS outbreak in 2003, when 44 Canadians died.
“We are determined to provide the information that the public needs,” he said.
The BC Centre for Disease Control has developed a diagnostic test for the new coronavirus and is working to ensure potential cases can be detected quickly and accurately.
Several countries have flown their citizens out of China as the novel virus spreads in that country and beyond to countries including Cambodia, Japan, Thailand, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia, Vietnam, Nepal, Australia, France, Germany, the United States and Canada.
Unlike some other countries, including the U.S., Canada has not repatriated any citizens.
Federal Health Minister Patty Hajdu said Foreign Affairs Minister Francois-Philippe Champagne is considering ways to bring Canadians back if they wish to return.
“Not all residents or visitors in the area that are Canadians do want to come back, and so we’re working through some of those details about what that might look like,” she said in Ottawa.
Canadians considering a trip to China should adhere to travel advisories, she said.
“There are increased advisories for the area of Hubei, the province of Hubei, to let travellers know that non-essential travel should not be considered at this time,” she said.
“That’s not so much about, by the way, contracting the illness. It’s because of the significant quarantine making it very difficult to move around the region. There is no transportation in and out of 18 cities in China. That number may grow.”
Hajdu echoed Henry’s concerns about misinformation sparking fears and said people should rely on government sources to ensure they are not unnecessarily being fearful of a virus that remains at a low risk to spread in Canada.
The federal government will be putting additional public health officials at airports to meet passengers from Chinese flights and ensure they have written information and can speak with someone who can explain the steps they need to take if they end up developing symptoms, she said.