Tirupati: Coronavirus fears keep officials on toes in the pilgrim city 
 Tirupati: Amid fears of deadly coronavirus the state government has alerted all districts including Chittoor to take preventive measures. It has even appointed Dr. V Rambabu, Professor of Medicine in Andhra Medical College, Visakhapatnam, as the state nodal officer for coronavirus infections.
Being the world renowned pilgrimage centre, Tirupati attracts many visitors from across the country and even from abroad. Though no suspicious cases have been reported in the city so far, the medical and health department is creating awareness on the virus and ways to prevent it. 
It may be recalled that the virus had its origin at Wuhan in China where it was believed to have passed on by an animal species to humans in a seafood and wildlife market there. The virus, also known as 2019-nCoV, was not previously identified in humans which may cause symptoms like fever, cough, shortness of breath and related problems. Doctors have been saying that in severe cases high fever, pneumonia, kidney failure may be witnessed and these may lead to death. 
The virus transmits through cough or sneezing from infected person or touching contaminated objects. However, it is learnt that no vaccines or antiviral drugs are available for these viruses but the symptoms can be treated. Keeping these facts in mind, the district has geared up to tackle any eventuality. 
District medical and health officer Dr. M Penchalaiah told The Hans India that there was no need to panic as the virus did not enter the country. Still, an isolated ward has been made ready at Ruia hospital in Tirupati and special focus is laid on airport. Awareness banners have been displayed there along with Ruia Hospital. One team has been posted at airport to find out any suspicious cases and conduct screening tests. All the staff have been wearing masks. 
As about 30 Chinese employees have been working in Dixon company at Tirupati, it was decided to conduct screening tests on them. It has to be seen if anyone of them have gone to China and returned recently. 
Ruia hospital superintendent Dr N V Ramanaiah said that they had set up committee of five Heads of Departments and a nodal officer to deal with suspected cases, if any. The special ward with eight beds with ICU facility has been ready in the hospital. The drugs to treat the symptoms are kept ready. Patients should be aware of the symptoms and approach the doctors immediately. He made it clear that all these steps were precautionary only and there is absolutely no need to worry.