Coronavirus evacuations split families as China forbids citizens to leave 
 As foreign nationals flee China and governments yank back diplomats and other expats, differing policies are splitting up families just when they need each other most.Such is the case with Jeff Siddle, from Northumberland, England, who is faced with a devastating choice: Does he evacuate with his 9-year-old daughter and leave his Chinese wife behind, or do they all stay?“I had to make a decision where it’s either my 9-year-old daughter, who's got a British passport, and myself to leave – and leave my wife here in China – or the three of us stay,” he told BBC News. “We’d have to have a 9-year-old child separated from her mother. Who knows how long that could be for? My daughter's obviously been in floods of tears. She’s absolutely devastated.”China has locked down 17 cities, including Wuhan, the Associated Press reported, trapping more than 50 million people in the most far-reaching disease control measures ever imposed.This has caught up families like the Siddles, as Chinese citizens are forbidden to leave whether they reside in China or not, and regardless of whether they’d be quarantined or screened when they got to their destination.The U.S. government’s chartered flight landed in Southern California on Wednesday, full of American consulate staffers and private citizens who had been screened at least twice.Siddle and his family are caught up only because they traveled to Wuhan to spend the Lunar New Year with relatives, BBC News said. They were supposed to go home to the UK Friday, but the cancellation of their flight put them among the 300 British people who are estimated to be stranded in the area of Hubei province.Now he’s got to decide whether to board a plane with his daughter Thursday, or keep his family together, in a state of siege. Given the spread worldwide, it’s not clear how long any of them will be trapped.“My wife is distraught,” Siddle told BBC News.British Airways, the country’s flagship airline, announced late Tuesday it was suspending flights in and out of China. Britain is putting charters together to evacuate citizens, with the caveat that they’ll be quarantined on the other end.“Anyone who returns from Wuhan will be safely isolated for 14 days, with all necessary medical attention,” British health secretary Matt Hancock tweeted, according to AP.That differs from the measures taken during the Ebola outbreak of 2014-16, AP noted. Back then travelers returning from West African nations were mostly told to isolate and monitor themselves for symptoms.Meanwhile, measures based on policy rather than the coronavirus’s epidemiological behavior are causing heartache and havoc.“My daughter’s obviously been in floods of tears,” Siddle told BBC News. “She’s absolutely devastated.”