Coronavirus updates: The latest news on the outbreak and the global response 
 Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

Twitter announced that it put in place a prompt on searches for coronavirus in an effort to direct people to "authoritative health sources." Various pieces of disinformation have circulated on social media about the virus.

American Airlines said on Wednesday morning that the company had suspended flights from Los Angeles to Shanghai and Beijing, citing a decline in demand.

The company is still flying from Dallas/Forth Worth to Beijing and Shanghai.

Scientists around the world are mobilizing to produce a vaccine that can help stop the new coronavirus.

While a vaccine is probably still at least a few months away, efforts to develop vaccines for previous coronavirus outbreaks combined with new technologies are shortening what remains a lengthy and arduous process.

Chinese scientists have already sequenced the genome of the virus — a string of more than 34,000 letters. Scientists in Australia were the first to grow the virus in a lab.

Finland has confirmed its first case of coronavirus, according to Finnish news service Yle.

A hospital in Lapland found that a Chinese tourist visiting the country had contracted the virus.

The head of the World Health Organization tweeted on Wednesday that the group will reconvene to decide "whether the current outbreak constitutes a public health emergency of international concern."

Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director-general of the WHO, wrote that person-to-person transmission in three countries outside of China created the potential for global spread of the coronavirus.

He also wrote that the WHO "deeply regrets" labeling the current risk as "moderate."

"This was a human error in preparing the report," he worte. "I have repeatedly stated the high risk of the outbreak."

Xinhua News Agency, China's state-run news operation, tweeted out video of a press conference in which the governor of China's Hubei provience, which includes the city of Wuhan, expressed confidence that the country will be able to stop the coronavirus — while wearing a facial mask.

American consulate personnel and citizens have been evacuated from an area of China close to the outbreak.

Their chartered flight made a refueling stop in Anchorage, Alaska on Tuesday night, where state health officials screened all 201 passengers. They were also monitored on the flight.

“All passengers had already been through two screenings in China and were monitored during the flight,” the Alaska Department of Health and Social Services said in a statement. “In Anchorage, all passengers were screened twice more and approved to continue on to California by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).”

The flight was cleared to proceed to California.

There are now 17 countries that have confirmed cases of coronavirus.

More than 6,000 people have been diagnosed with the virus and 132 have died.