Key impeachment witness said firing of Ukrainian ambassador was 'improper' 
 Former National Security Adviser John Bolton claimed improprieties in Donald Trump’s firing of former Ukranian Ambassador Marie Yovanovitch, according to a new statement from House Foreign Affairs Chairman Eliot Engel . (Picture: AP/Getty)A potential key witness in Donald Trump’s impeachment trial ‘strongly implied that something was improper’ in the firing of the US Ambassador to Ukraine.

On Wednesday, House Foreign Affairs Chairman Eliot Engel said former national security adviser John Bolton told him to investigate the removal of US Ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch months after her firing.

Bolton has recently been thrust into the center of the Senate’s impeachment battle as Republicans and Democrats argue over whether to permit his testimony in the trial.

‘Ambassador Bolton suggested to me – unprompted – that the committee look into the recall of Ambassador Marie Yovanovitch,’ Engel wrote.

‘He strongly implied that something improper had occurred around her removal as our top diplomat in Kyiv.’


US Ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch was fired by Trump in May. (Picture: EPA)

Yovanovitch’s removal was a conversation point during the highly contentious April 21 phone call between Trump and Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelensky.

During the call, Trump told Zelensky that Yovanovitch was ‘bad news’ and said she was ‘going to go through some things.’ Yovanovitch was fired the following month and later testified in the House impeachment hearing in November that Trump’s comments ‘sounded like a threat.’

British man risks life to stay with Chinese wife in coronavirus epicentreEngel did not elaborate on what improprieties Bolton told him about in regards to Yovanovitch’s firing in his statement, but he did urge the Senate to subpoena Bolton as a witness in the impeachment trial, which the majority of Senate Republicans has strongly opposed.

The former national security adviser is also in the impeachment spotlight because of a book he is set to publish, titled ‘The Room Where It Happened: A White House Memoir,’ which is believed to contain explosive and condemning claims related to Trump’s conduct toward Ukraine.

Bolton reportedly suggested in the book that Trump told him he wanted to continue holding $391 in military aid to Ukraine until the country’s government announced an investigation into former Vice President Joe Biden and his son Hunter, which is the issue at the heart abuse of power charge against Trump.


House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Eliot Engel ended his statement by urging the Senate to subpoena Bolton. (Picture: AP)Details in the book were leaked earlier this week after the New York Times obtained a draft manuscript of the memoir.

On Wednesday, Trump attacked Bolton and his book on Twitter, calling the memoir ‘nasty and untrue’ while claiming it outed ‘classified’ national security information. Trump has denied telling Bolton that the military aid to Ukraine was tied to investigations into the Bidens.

Horrific and bizarre video shows woman killed while clinging to front of carThe White House also issued a formal threat against Bolton in an attempt to keep him from publishing the book.

A top official at the National Security Council sent a letter to Bolton’s lawyer, claiming the manuscript ‘appears to contain significant amounts of classified information’ and could not be published as written.

The letter, which is dated January 23, said some of the information in the book was classified at the ‘top secret’ level, which means ‘reasonably could be expected to cause exceptionally grave harm to the national security.’



However, Bolton’s bombshell claims are exactly why Democrats are calling for him to testify.

In a statement, House Democrats’ impeachment managers said: ‘no doubt now that Mr. Bolton directly contradicts the heart of the President’s defense and therefore must be called as a witness at the impeachment trial of President Trump. Senators should insist that Mr. Bolton be called as a witness, and provide his notes and other relevant documents’