Interior Department's nonemergency drones grounded due to cybersecurity concerns 
 The order applies to all the agency’s drones and other unmanned aerial systems, with the exception of those used in emergencies such as fighting wildfires or search-and-rescue situations. The order does not include a definite date for when the grounding will end.

A spokesperson for the agency said in a statement that "drones are important to critical Department of the Interior missions, such as combating wildfires and conducting life-saving search and rescue operations; however, we must ensure that the technology used for these operations is such that it will not compromise our national security interests.”

The spokesperson noted that Bernhardt signed the order after a review of the agency’s drone program and that the drones would remain grounded until the department “reviews the possibility of threats and ensures a secure, reliable and consistent drone policy that advances our mission while keeping America safe.”

Interior wrote in the order that “protecting America's national treasures and critical resources requires a sustained effort to securely access, collect, and maintain information, much of which is sensitive.”

In October, the department had grounded all of its drones that were either Chinese-made or had Chinese parts until a security review was completed.

A group of Republican senators cited this decision in a letter sent to the Department of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in December, raising national security concerns about the federal government using Chinese-made drones, particularly those made by Chinese company Da Jiang Innovation (DJI).

Republican Sens. Marco Rubio Marco Antonio RubioHillicon Valley: UK allows Huawei to build 5G in blow to Trump | Lawmakers warn decision threatens intel sharing | Work on privacy bill inches forward | Facebook restricts travel to China amid virus Lawmakers warn US, UK intel sharing at risk after Huawei decision GOP lawmaker: UK-Huawei deal could force US to 'reexamine' intelligence-sharing partnership MORE (Fla.), Marsha Blackburn Marsha BlackburnTaylor Swift on publicist's Trump warning before political post: 'F--- that, I don't care' GOP cries boredom in attack on impeachment case Marsha Blackburn shares what book she's reading during Trump Senate trial MORE (Tenn.), Tom Cotton Thomas (Tom) Bryant CottonOvernight Health Care — Presented by Philip Morris International — HHS has no plans to declare emergency over coronavirus | GOP senator calls for travel ban to stop outbreak | Warren releases plan to contain infectious diseases Hillicon Valley: UK allows Huawei to build 5G in blow to Trump | Lawmakers warn decision threatens intel sharing | Work on privacy bill inches forward | Facebook restricts travel to China amid virus Lawmakers warn US, UK intel sharing at risk after Huawei decision MORE (Ark.), Rick Scott (Fla.) and John Cornyn John CornynHillicon Valley: UK allows Huawei to build 5G in blow to Trump | Lawmakers warn decision threatens intel sharing | Work on privacy bill inches forward | Facebook restricts travel to China amid virus Republicans signal renewed confidence they'll avoid witness fight Lawmakers warn US, UK intel sharing at risk after Huawei decision MORE (Texas) urged the two agencies to “immediately restrict the use of this equipment and technology that has the potential to jeopardize the security of critical information and infrastructure gained through this and other FAA programs.”

They emphasized that “American taxpayer dollars should not fund state-controlled or state-owned firms that seek to undermine American national security and economic competitiveness.”

Concerns around Chinese companies have ramped up on Capitol Hill in recent years due to a 2017 Chinese law that requires companies to participate in state intelligence work.

DJI, which develops a large percentage of the world's drones, told The Hill in a statement on Wednesday that it was "extremely disappointed" with the Interior Department's new order, saying the move "inappropriately treats a technology's country of origin as a litmus test for its performance, security, and reliability."

--Updated at 1:10 p.m. to include a statement from DJI