Boeing earnings pummeled by 737 Max grounding: first loss in decades 
 The grounding of the Boeing 737 Max pummeled the airliner maker's finances, handing it its first full-year loss in more than two decades as its CEO vowed to make it "the safety airplane in the sky."

"The Max itself has to be my priority over the course of the year," CEO David Calhoun said on a conference call to discuss earnings. "We have to get it out there and get our confidence back."

He stood by the company's previous forecast of a midyear return to service of the Max, although some airlines have warned that retraining pilots and conducting maintenance on the grounded planes could push a return into the fall.

For all of 2019, Boeing posted a loss of $636 million after turning a profit of $10.5 billion in 2018, primarily due to the 737 Max's grounding following two deadly crashes. It's the company's first full-year loss since 1997, according to financial database FactSet.

For the fourth quarter, Boeing reported a net loss of $1 billion after recording a profit of $3.4 billion a year earlier. Revenue plunged 37% to $17.9 billion.

The company recorded a $2.6 billion charge for "estimated potential concessions and other considerations to customers related to the 737 Max grounding. It also reported an additional $2.6 billion in unexpected costs related to 737 airliner production and delivery.

Calhoun said employees are "hurt and disappointed that we let our stakeholders down." But he promised a resurgence as the Max changes are approved by aviation authorities. "We'll get it done and we'll get it done the right way."

Boeing also warned that the suspension of 737 Max production would introduce "abnormal production costs" of about $4 billion in the future, largely in 2020.

Coronavirus confusion:The coronavirus has nothing to do with Corona beer. But, some people seem to think so.

Gear up for tax season:How long will it take to get my tax refund this year?

Boeing said last week that the 737 Max isn't expected to receive Federal Aviation Administration approval to return to the skies until at least the summer.

"We are committed to transparency and excellence in everything we do," Calhoun said in a statement. "Safety will underwrite every decision, every action and every step we take as we move forward. Fortunately, the strength of our overall Boeing portfolio of businesses provides the financial liquidity to follow a thorough and disciplined recovery process."

Even after the grounding order is lifted, upgrading the planes and retraining crews could effectively keep the 737 Max out of service through the summer, the season in which planes are filled with vacationing families.

The 737 Max was grounded after the crashes of two jets – a Lion Air flight in October 2018 and an Ethiopian Airlines flight in March 2019. The two incidents involving the Max, the latest version of the jet that has flown since the 1960s, killed a total of 346 passengers and crew.

Overall, the 737 Max grounding costs total $18.6 billion so far, including money set aside to deal with future issues, the company said.