Yang says it 'wouldn't be surprising' if many of his supporters back Sanders in Iowa 
 Andrew Yang Andrew YangPoll: 56 percent of Democrats say billionaire politicians more likely to cater to special interests Support for Biden, Sanders ticks up nationally: poll The Hill's 12:30 Report: Trump lawyers to offer closing arguments on day 7 MORE said Wednesday that he would not be surprised if his supporters flock to Sen. Bernie Sanders Bernie SandersNew campaign ad goes after Sanders by mentioning heart attack Biden on whether Sanders can unify party as nominee: 'It depends' Steyer rebukes Biden for arguing with supporter he thought was Sanders voter MORE (I-Vt.) in areas of Iowa where his campaign does not meet the threshold for winning delegates.

In an interview with Bloomberg, the 2020 candidate said that "many" of his supporters could end up in Sanders's camp if his campaign fails to meet the 15 percent threshold in precincts across the state. Candidates must receive support from 15 percent of caucusgoers in a location for their candidate to remain viable.

“I think that Bernie and I do have a lot of overlap in support so it wouldn’t be surprising to me if many of our supporters head in that direction,” Yang told the news outlet.

His remarks come as he remains in the single digits in most polls of Iowa with days left to go before the caucus, while Sanders now sits on top of several recent polls of the first-in-the-nation caucus state, above rivals such as former Vice President Joe Biden Joe BidenPerry delegation talking points stressed pushing Ukraine to deal with 'corruption' GOP senator airs anti-Biden ad in Iowa amid impeachment trial Biden photobombs live national news broadcast at one of his rallies MORE (D) and Sen. Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth Ann WarrenBiden on whether Sanders can unify party as nominee: 'It depends' Overnight Health Care — Presented by Philip Morris International — HHS has no plans to declare emergency over coronavirus | GOP senator calls for travel ban to stop outbreak | Warren releases plan to contain infectious diseases Biden lines up high-profile surrogates to campaign in Iowa MORE (D-Mass.).

A boost from Yang supporters could push Sanders over the top in the caucuses next week should Yang fail to pass the 15 percent threshold at various caucus locations. Caucusgoers who support a candidate that does not reach viability have the option to support another candidate or none at all.

In his interview Wednesday, Yang hinted that several candidates had reached out to his campaign about formal arrangements in such cases, though he did not explain further.

A poll released Wednesday found Sanders and Biden at the top of the pack in Iowa, with support from 21 percent and 23 percent of caucusgoers respectively.