Centrist poll: 'Medicare for All' underwater in key battleground states 
 A new poll from a centrist Democratic think tank of three battleground states shows “Medicare for All” is far less popular than a plan to build off the Affordable Care Act.

The polling from Third Way, conducted in the “Blue Wall” states of Mighican, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, shows a sharp divide between those who support Medicare for All and those who don’t.

According to the poll, Medicare for All is just as unpopular in Michigan and Pennsylvania as President Trump Donald John TrumpCNN's Don Lemon explains handling of segment after Trump criticism NPR reporter after Pompeo clash: Journalists don't interview government officials to score 'political points' Lawyer says Parnas can't attend Senate trial due to ankle bracelet MORE’s plan to repeal and replace ObamaCare. Only 41 percent of respondents in Michigan and 40 percent of respondents in Pennsylvania said they supported the policy.

In Wisconsin, 47 percent of respondents supported Medicare for All.

Medicare for All is a rallying cry among progressives, and is championed by Sen. Bernie Sanders Bernie SandersNew campaign ad goes after Sanders by mentioning heart attack Biden on whether Sanders can unify party as nominee: 'It depends' Steyer rebukes Biden for arguing with supporter he thought was Sanders voter MORE (I-Vt.) and his rival for the Democratic presidential nomination Sen. Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth Ann WarrenBiden on whether Sanders can unify party as nominee: 'It depends' Overnight Health Care — Presented by Philip Morris International — HHS has no plans to declare emergency over coronavirus | GOP senator calls for travel ban to stop outbreak | Warren releases plan to contain infectious diseases Biden lines up high-profile surrogates to campaign in Iowa MORE (D-Mass.).

The poll did not ask whether the voters would support a public option, which is the plan supported by former Vice President Joe Biden Joe BidenPerry delegation talking points stressed pushing Ukraine to deal with 'corruption' GOP senator airs anti-Biden ad in Iowa amid impeachment trial Biden photobombs live national news broadcast at one of his rallies MORE.

Third Way polled 888 voters in Michigan, 1,625 in Pennsylvania, and 993 in Wisconsin.

The poll echoes results from a joint Cook Political/Kaiser Family Foundation poll in November, which found a majority of Democratic voters support Medicare for All, but swing voters said it was a bad idea.

The Third Way poll also found that voters think Medicare for All will raise middle-class taxes.

Supporters of the progressive health care proposal argue that middle-class Americans will end up saving money because the elimination of premiums and deductibles will more than cancel out the increased taxes they would have to pay.