Hamilton bar offering patrons cheap Corona beers 'while pandemic lasts' 
 A Hamilton bar's Corona deal offering $6.50 beers "while pandemic lasts" is receiving mixed responses on social media.

The House on Hood Facebook page put up a post on Wednesday to promote the beer and said "mention your Corona loving mates to let them know about this great deal and you could be sharing a free one metre pizza".

The Corona virus, which originated in Wuhan, China, has so far killed 132 people globally and left more than 4500 sick.

The post has a picture of two men in boiler suits wearing masks and gloves holding the beer. "Virus or no virus, we still think Coronas are pretty great, so while the pandemic lasts, we're selling Coronas for just $6.50," it says.

READ MORE:

 * Hamilton House on Hood bar makes light of Mark Bunting's lewd joke

 * New Zealand will partner with Australia to get stranded Kiwis out of Wuhan

 ​* We're much more vulnerable to the spread of viruses than we once were



It has received mixed responses on Facebook, with some people calling it "shameful".

"I realise that House likes to be cheeky with things like this and to whoever crafted the ad for you it was probably all in "good fun". However...130 people have died of the virus so far and there's over 6,000 confirmed cases. These people are literally suffering and it's honestly shameful to use their deaths as a marketing strategy."

"Can't really believe the deaths of 132 people are being used as an advertising ploy. You should be ashamed."

However, other people thought the post was "brilliant".

"As the CEO says... all you snowflakes need to relax! China has 1.3 billion people and 130ish people have died from the virus! More people die in car accidents, influenza, or the flu over this each day! The chance of an out spread in NZ is very low! Just relax and grab a beer maybe a Corona or something."

This isn't the first time House on Hood has used current affairs as an advertising opportunity.

They played on a crude joke Hamilton City Councillor Mark Bunting sent to freelance journalist Angela Cuming in 2017, but later deleted the post at the request of council.

When Metiria Turei was in trouble with Winz they posted a meme as well as when Bill English lost the Eminem case for copyright and NZ First and Labour formed a coalition.