Coronavirus: Kiwis evacuated from Wuhan will not be quarantined on Christmas Island, Peters says 
 Kiwis evacuated from Wuhan will not be quarantined on Christmas Island, Foreign Affairs Minister Winston Peters says.

Australia and New Zealand are working together to get the countries' citizens out of the Chinese city that is at the centre of a deadly coronavirus outbreak.  The number of people in Australia confirmed with coronavirus has risen to seven, with a 44-year-old Chinese national becoming the first confirmed case in Queensland.

Australia's Prime Minister Scott Morrison has said Australians evacuated from Wuhan would be quarantined on Christmas Island, where Australia has an immigration detention centre.

Talking to RNZ on Thursday morning, Peters ruled out sending New Zealand evacuees to Christmas Island.

READ MORE:

 * New Zealand will partner with Australia to get stranded Kiwis out of Wuhan

 ​* Coronavirus: World airlines suspend China flights, cut services on virus fears

 * Coronavirus: China vows to slay 'demon' virus as fear grows

"We're looking at the quarantine options within New Zealand already. We're working on that," Peters said.

He couldn't yet say where evacuees coming to New Zealand were likely to be quarantined. "We can't tell you that, at this point in time," Peters said.

"We have been seriously looking at that issue and we will be able to provide, when we nail it down, an answer, but that is our intent."

The timing of any evacuation depended on getting the go ahead from the Chinese government for an aircraft to be used. "We haven't got all the options we would like, because if it's a military aircraft it takes so much longer for us to get that agreed upon," Peters said.

"I think, hitherto no such agreement has been reached with any other country where military aircraft for extraction have been used. But at the moment we are doing the best we can to get that ironed out, with respect to our options, alongside Australia."

Qantas is reported to be planning an emergency flight to Wuhan. Peters said agreement from staff was needed for them to provide personnel for the plane.

"It's awfully complex to go through that. Then the medical specialists would be put together. All the safeguards for containment, with respect to the crew and respect to the passengers before and after, as well as the quarantine provisions."

Previously, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (Mfat) confirmed to Stuff that New Zealand consular officials will join an Australian consular team in Wuhan on Thursday to work through the details of any assisted departure.

The ministry continued to work through options to assist New Zealand citizens to leave Wuhan, including an Australian or New Zealand-arranged chartered flight, with both commercial and military options being explored, a Mfat spokeswoman said.

"This situation remains complex as we work through all the necessary approvals and requirements including logistics, and health and safety requirements."

In a series of meetings on Wednesday afternoon, Qantas and the Australian government grappled with the operational hurdles.

Qantas has never flown to Wuhan and it would need to receive clearance from the closed airport to put up to 400 people on a Boeing-747 – the largest plane it has available.

The design of Christmas Island's runway, which is not grooved, also means it can not land the same plane on the island with a full passenger load. The airline is considering landing the larger plane at an airport on the Australian mainland and then seeking government cooperation to transfer passengers onto smaller aircraft to the detention centre.

Australia's chief medical officer Brendan Murphy said those who took the flight would have to consent to going to Christmas Island as part of being transported.