Pregnant Canadian, British husband seek U.K.’s help flying home from China 
 A teacher who is living with his pregnant Canadian wife and child in a city that is the epicentre of China’s coronavirus outbreak is hoping to get out of the country on a British flight.
Tom Williams is hoping to get his wife, Lauren, who is about 35 weeks pregnant, out of Wuhan, a city that has been essentially locked down with the emergence of the disease. The couple also has a two-and-a-half-year-old son, James, who is Canadian.


				
		
	
			
							
					Tom Williams along with his wife Lauren and son James are seen in this undated handout photo.				 
										
					CP handout				
					
	
Williams is a British expat and his wife and son are from British Columbia.
									Story continues below advertisement

			
			
			
			


					
		
	“We’re just currently waiting to hear confirmation whether we’ve got space on the British flight,” Williams told The Canadian Press in a FaceTime interview from China on Wednesday.
The family received a call from officials in Ottawa earlier this week, who asked permission to share his wife’s file with the British Embassy, he said.
“We have some stuff laid out in case it’s a last-minute departure.”
The virus has killed 132 people and infected more than 6,000 on the Chinese mainland and abroad.
The Williams family is among 126 Canadians the federal government says have asked for help leaving Wuhan.
							    	
				
					
						
												
							
																
								
							
							
																	3:11
																									Australia to help some citizens leave China, quarantine them on Christmas Island
															
						
											
				

			

					
				Australia to help some citizens leave China, quarantine them on Christmas Island
			
							
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Wednesday that his government is working closely with Canadian consular officials in China.
“We’re listening and concerned about Canadians who are right now in the affected zone,” Trudeau said in Ottawa.
	
		
		
	“We will look at what we can do. There are many countries looking at different ways to help out,” he said. “It is a complex situation.”
Federal Health Minister Patty Hajdu said her department has been in touch with U.S. officials about their repatriation plan.
									Story continues below advertisement

			
			
			
			


					
		
	Canada’s chief public health officer, Dr. Theresa Tam, will brief MPs on the Commons health committee Wednesday afternoon.
On Tuesday, Foreign Affairs Minister Francois-Philippe Champagne said the government is “looking at all options.”
“Every Canadian that has reached out to us for consular assistance will receive it,” he said.
At least 250 Canadians have registered with Global Affairs Canada to say they are in Wuhan, said Champagne, who added that officials are trying to contact everyone to assess their needs. He said Canada will tailor its response based on what it learns.
							    	
				
					
						
												
							
																
								
							
							
																	2:27
																									Federal government looking to assist Canadians stuck in China’s coronavirus-affected region
															
						
											
				

			

					
				Federal government looking to assist Canadians stuck in China’s coronavirus-affected region
			
							
Williams said looking at options isn’t really helping people on the ground, although he understands that Canada doesn’t have a diplomatic presence in Wuhan, a city of 11 million. Canadian offices in Beijing and Shanghai are closed until Sunday for the Lunar New Year holiday.
“We’re just a little anxious and hoping for some answers pretty soon,” said Williams, who added that he and his family are “still healthy and still OK.”
The family went out during the day Wednesday and the streets were “very quiet,” he said. They take their temperatures whenever they enter and leave their apartment complex.
									Story continues below advertisement

			
			
			
			


					
		
	James was watching “Toy Story” Wednesday afternoon.
“He’s a little bit clingy, but we’re doing our best with train sets and different things. Trying to keep him entertained.”
Canadian Wayne Duplessis, who teaches in China, said he and his family registered with the emergency response centre in Ottawa to know what help may be available in Wuhan.
But Duplessis, who is originally from Espanola, Ont., said he is not looking to leave.
							    	
				
					
						
												
							
																
								
							
							
																	2:09
																									Coronavirus outbreak: 126 Canadians in Hubei province have requested repatriation
															
						
											
				

			

					
				Coronavirus outbreak: 126 Canadians in Hubei province have requested repatriation
			
							
Most people he knows are taking the situation in stride, although he said there is “a certain resignation” and “despair.” Duplessis and his family members take their temperatures every morning at breakfast.
More restrictions have been placed on cars and some people are worried those might affect day-to-day activities such as getting groceries, he said.
From his 28th-floor balcony, Duplessis said he could see the highway, usually buzzing with activity, was empty.
“The IKEA mall across the street is empty, which is too bad. There’s great lunches there,” he said.
“An IKEA meatball lunch would be nice right now.”
									Story continues below advertisement

			
			
			
			


					
		
							

					
					
						
							© 2020 The Canadian Press