Tom Walsh, Valerie Adams denied shot at world indoors due to Coronavirus fears 
 Tom Walsh will have to wait a year for his shot at a hat-trick of world indoors titles.

Tom Walsh will not get to defend his back-to-back world indoors shot put titles in 2020 after the sport's governing body elected to postpone the event a year because of the Coronavirus in China.

The decision will also rob double Olympic champion Dame Val Adams of her first global championship since she took nearly two years out from the sport to have her second baby, son Kepaleli Tava Sidney, born in March last year. Adams is a four-time world indoors gold medallist, having won the event in 2008, '10, '12 and '14.

Adams qualified for both the Tokyo Olympics and world indoors with a throw of 18.65 metres at the recent Potts Classic in Hastings in her return to the competitive arena.

Walsh has won the last two world indoors shot put titles, with victories in Portaland in 2016 and Birmingham in 2018.

READ MORE:

 * Adams nails qualifying throw

 * Willis goes sub-4 in Boston

 * Val: Olympics after 2nd baby 'doable'

The world indoors were scheduled to take part in Nanjing from March 13-15. Other New Zealand athletes who had qualified for the championships were shot putters Jacko Gill and Maddison-Lee Wesche and two-time Olympic 1500m medallist Nick Willis.

World Athletics said postponing the event until 2021 became the most sensible course of action once it was established that relocating to another country was in the too-hard basket.

Given the still volatile nature of the virus and its spread around China, as well as outside its borders, the global athletics governing body said it simply could not expose its athletes and officials to that level of health risk.

"We know that China is doing all it can to contain the new Coronavirus and we support them in all their efforts," said World Athletics in a statement. "But it is necessary to provide our athletes, member federations and partners with a clear way forward in what is a complex and fast-moving set of circumstances.

"The advice from our medical team, who are in contact with the World Health Organisation, is that the spread of the Coronavirus both within China and outside the country is still at a concerning level and no one should be going ahead with any major gathering that can be postponed."

World Athletics confirmed relocation to another country was considered. "However, given concerns still exist regarding the spread of the virus outside China, we have decided not to go with this option, as it may lead to further postponement at a later date.

"The indoor season for athletics falls within a narrow calendar window (up to the end of March) and we believe we will be able to find a suitable date in 2021 to host this event. We would like Nanjing to be the host given the extensive planning and preparation they have put into this event."

The sport's governing body said feedback from athletes was that they did not want the event to be cancelled altogether.