Coronavirus death toll rises to 106; countries scramble to minimize damage 
 中 신종코로나 확산 가속… 사망 106명•확진 4629명



We begin this morning with our ongoing coverage of the coronavirus outbreak.

The virus is spreading quickly and the world is on edge.

More than 46-hundred cases have been confirmed in China,... with at least 1-hundred-and-6 deaths reported.

Our Kim Jae-hee is on the line with the latest.

Jae-hee, please fill us in.

Right. So the new type of coronavirus that first appeared in Wuhan late last month continues to claim more victims.

As of Wednesday morning,... at least 106 people have died in China... with 85 of the deaths in Wuhan.

The number of confirmed cases in China has soared to around 4 thousand-6 hundred,... with more than half of them in Wuhan.

Even though certain Chinese cities remain on lockdown,... the Chinese capital Beijing, and Shanghai have reported deaths from the virus as well.

A 50-year old man died of respiratory failure in Beijing on Monday.

Health officials said he was diagnosed with the novel coronavirus last week, after staying in Wuhan from January 8th to 15th.

Shanghai has also reported its first death from the virus... with an 88-year-old man dying on Sunday.

The Chinese government has urged its people to postpone non-essential overseas trips.

Unfortunately, experts in China say the outbreak is forecast to worsen.

The head of a team of experts established by the National Health Commission in China said on Tuesday,... that the coronavirus will reach its peak infection rate in 7 to 10 days.

The virus is also continuing to spread to other parts of the world.

What do we know so far about its impact, and what are other countries doing to minimize the damage?

Yes, the virus is popping up across the world,...

with more confirmed cases being reported everyday.

Seventeen countries and territorial entities outside mainland China have now reported confirmed cases.

However, no deaths from the coronavirus have been reported other than in China so far.

France on Tuesday confirmed its fourth case in an elderly Chinese tourist.

France's Health Ministry said the patient, who is hospitalized in Paris, is believed to be about 80 years old and is gravely ill.

In a new development, Japan and Germany have both confirmed cases from patients who have never been to Wuhan.

Japan reported two more cases on Tuesday,... and one of them a male bus driver in his 60s has not been to the Chinese city at the epicenter of this outbreak.

Japan's Health Ministry says he drove two groups of Chinese tourists from Wuhan earlier this month.

Germany confirmed its first case on Tuesday as well and the patient a 33-year old German male did not visit China but was in a meeting with a female Chinese national last week.

She has since gone back to Beijing and tested positive for the coronavirus.

Thailand also confirmed six more cases on Tuesday,... bringing its total number of cases to 14.

Having the most confirmed patients outside of China,... Thailand has announced plans to screen all arrivals from China for symptoms of the coronavirus.

Hong Kong has eight confirmed cases.

Hong Kong on Tuesday announced plans to slash cross-border travel between the city and mainland China.

The Hong Kong government is also waiving medical treatment fees for all patients suspected of being infected by the new coronavirus.

The virus has also spread to North America...with at least 5 people diagnosed, all of whom recently traveled from Wuhan.

The U.S. said on Tuesday it will expand screening of travelers arriving from Wuhan to 20 airports and land crossings, up from five airports.

The European Commission said on Tuesday it would start helping repatriate Europeans from the Chinese region on France's request.

The South Korean, Japanese, American, French, and German governments are also sending chartered planes this week to repatriate their citizens stuck in Wuhan.

That's all I have for this hour, but I'll be back with more updates in our later newscast.

Back to you.



#Coronavirus #death #damage



Arirang News Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/arirangtvnews