Stocks rise after the Fed leaves rates unchanged 
 Stocks rose Wednesday after the Federal Reserve kept interest rates unchanged, as was widely expected.

The Dow was up 110 points, while the S&P 500 climbed 0.3% and the Nasdaq added 0.4%.

The Federal Open Market Committee held the overnight benchmark rate in a range between 1.5% and 1.75%. In a statement, the policymaking committee said rates are geared towards a return to their 2% inflation objective. The central bank also remarked the labor market remains “strong” while the economy is growing at a “moderate rate.” However, the Fed downgraded its characterization of the U.S. consumer, noting spending is “moderate” after being “strong” in December.

Stocks also got a lift as Apple led a parade of companies that reported better-than-expected earnings.

Apple gained 2.6% to a record after its quarterly results easily beat analyst expectations. The company’s results were driven in part because of an 8% uptick in iPhone sales, which totaled $55.96 billion.

“Apple pleasantly surprised investors on multiple fronts, but most importantly materially exceeded investor expectations on iPhone revenues, which returned to growth in the quarter much ahead of investor expectations,” J.P. Morgan analyst Samik Chatterjee said in a note.

McDonald’s, another Dow component, posted better-than-expected quarterly results, sending the stock up 2.6%. Dow Inc and ADP reported profits that beat analyst estimates as well along with General Electric, which surged about 10%.

So far, nearly 28% of S&P 500 companies have reported results for the previous quarter. Of those companies, about 70% have beaten analyst expectations, FactSet data shows.

Boeing shares rose more than 2% even after the aircraft manufacturer reported its first annual loss since 1997.

“Like every earning season, you get a point in time where you shift from a macro focus to a micro focus. That seems to be the case today,” said Art Hogan, a chief market strategist at National Securities. “That’s okay, because the macro focus really has been Chinese coronavirus, and what eventual economic damage that might do.”

“The market has done a pretty efficient job of picking the sectors that are likely to be hit the hardest and really punishing that group,” he added.

AMD shares, however, dropped more than 7% after the semiconductor company issued weaker-than-forecast revenue guidance for the first quarter. Xilinx also gave a disappointing sales forecast, which sent its stock down more than 9%. Those moves dragged down the VanEck Vectors Semiconductor ETF by more than 1%. Semiconductor stocks have had a rough week as worries over the coronavirus outbreak dented sentiment over the global economy.

Chinese officials said late Tuesday that the death toll has risen to 132 with total cases in China now standing at 5,974. The White House told U.S. airlines on Tuesday that the administration is considering a suspension of flights from China to the U.S.

“Because of that melt-up we had at the end of 2019, stocks are not cheap. That leaves almost no margin for unknowns to pop up,” said Tim Courtney, chief investment officer at Exencial Wealth Advisors. But in general, “we’re optimistic that we’ll have some average earnings growth and GDP growth.”