Trending: Just when the trade war was cooling, tech has a new China problem 
 Welcome to this week's edition of Trending, the newsletter where we highlight BI Prime's biggest tech stories. I'm Alexei Oreskovic, Business Insider's West Coast bureau chief and global tech editor.

If this is your first time here, this is how you can get Trending in your inbox every week.

Tech company earnings season is now in full swing, with Apple's quarterly report card on Tuesday showing that consumers can't stop splurging on iPhones and Airpods. But China has once again cast a cloud over Apple's future prospects. Just when the Sino-American trade war was starting to cool off, the coronavirus outbreak is now causing "uncertainty," to use Apple CFO Luca Maestri's word.

Apple noted that it has suppliers in Wuhan, China, the region where the outbreak is believed to have started, as well as a retail store there, which has been shuttered. And CEO Tim Cook said that traffic to Apple retail stores throughout China has slowed because of the disease.

Apple blamed the uncertainty created by the outbreak for a "wider-than-usual" variance in its sales forecast. As Troy Wolverton notes though, the $4 billion delta between the high and low end of Apple's revenue forecast is exactly as wide as it's been in three of the company's last five quarterly forecasts. Perhaps uncertainty is the natural order of things in these days of volatile political and economic conditions.

In any case, as we saw with the trade war, what happens to Apple in China is likely to spread to other tech companies with operations there. And these days, who isn't in China? Tesla which reports its quarterly earnings on Wednesday, just opened a factory in Shanghai a few weeks ago. Microsoft, which also reports on Wednesday, operates its largest R&D center outside of the US in China.

At first blush, the virus outbreak might seem like more impetus to tech companies' on-and-off again efforts to diversify production and supply chains outside of China. That was the strategy embraced by companies like GoPro in order to escape the trade war tariffs — a chess move in a contest between protectionism and globalization.

But the coronavirus is spreading quickly and well beyond China, with cases confirmed in more than a dozen other countries. While the merits of a free trade and a globalized economy are under scrutiny, there are some aspects of globalization that we can't escape as easily as tariffs.