Outside group to launch Warren attack ad over Native American land rights bill 
 An outside group is launching a new attack ad on Democratic presidential candidate Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth Ann WarrenBiden on whether Sanders can unify party as nominee: 'It depends' Overnight Health Care — Presented by Philip Morris International — HHS has no plans to declare emergency over coronavirus | GOP senator calls for travel ban to stop outbreak | Warren releases plan to contain infectious diseases Biden lines up high-profile surrogates to campaign in Iowa MORE over the Massachusetts senator’s endorsement of a bill aimed at protecting Native American land rights.

The digital ad will launch Thursday and run in Iowa and New Hampshire before the crucial, early state contests, according to a consultant with knowledge of the ad. The seven-to-10 day ad campaign will also run in Washington, D.C., the consultant said.

The ad is paid for by the Coalition to Restore American Values, a group that has previously hit Warren over her support for the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe Reservation Reaffirmation Act.

The ad aims to cast Warren, a top-tier candidate in the Democratic primary, as “fake” and “hypocritical,” according to a copy of the ad obtained by The Hill.

The 30-second digital ad is the latest rolled out by the Coalition to Restore American Values attacking Warren over her support for the bill.

The group was also behind an online ad featuring Warren in a Native American headdress over her “casino plan,” that ran last May, The Daily Beast reported at the time.

Coalition to Restore American Values is registered to conservative political donor David Langdon, according to The Daily Beast which cited Ohio state records.

The group is also behind the “no faux casino” website that features the online ad reported by The Daily Beast.

A spokesperson for the Warren campaign did not respond to a request for comment.

The Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe Reservation Reaffirmation Act passed in the House last year, with 47 Republicans joining almost all Democrats in favor of the bill.

The measure would terminate a years-long legal battle to the tribe's reservation by reaffirming the contested land belongs to the group and bar future lawsuits challenging the claim.

Critics of the legislation dismissed it as a thinly veiled attempt to allow the tribe to build a casino.

Trump had urged House Republicans to vote against it, using his derisive nickname for Warren.

“Republicans shouldn’t vote for H.R. 312, a special interest casino Bill, backed by Elizabeth (Pocahontas) Warren. It is unfair and doesn’t treat Native Americans equally!” Trump tweeted at the time.

The launch comes as Warren looks to build support in Iowa and New Hampshire ahead of the crucial nominating contests.

A RealClearPolitics average of polling shows Warren in fourth place in both states, trailing Sen. Bernie Sanders Bernie SandersNew campaign ad goes after Sanders by mentioning heart attack Biden on whether Sanders can unify party as nominee: 'It depends' Steyer rebukes Biden for arguing with supporter he thought was Sanders voter MORE, former Vice President Joe Biden Joe BidenPerry delegation talking points stressed pushing Ukraine to deal with 'corruption' GOP senator airs anti-Biden ad in Iowa amid impeachment trial Biden photobombs live national news broadcast at one of his rallies MORE and former South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg Peter (Pete) Paul ButtigiegBiden on whether Sanders can unify party as nominee: 'It depends' Biden lines up high-profile surrogates to campaign in Iowa Hill.TV's Krystal Ball: Failure to embrace Sanders as nominee would 'destroy' Democratic Party MORE.