Any questions? ‘Audience interaction’ means swimming with sharks 
 So, you are organising a panel-discussions event or a public lecture. You must decide how much time to leave for audience questions. At first, you generously allot 20 minutes: ‘It has to be interactive!’ Then eyes roll, experience kicks in, and finally it’s down to ‘No, yaar, five-six mins maxxx.’ You’ve been there, seen that, torn out what’s left of your hair in despair.

Here’s how it goes. The panel’s been lively. The audience has listened spellbound – at least not sidled off, or gone into such distracted fits of coughing that you wonder if you should alert the coronavirus cell. Then the moderator faces full-front, and says, ‘I think we should open it up for questions.’ The panellists sit up expectantly/ groan internally, depending on how long they’ve been part of the circus.

One of two things happens. A: There’s glacial silence (embarrassing). B: A forest of hands springs up (promising). In Case A, the moderator bravely salvages the situation with, ‘OKKK, let me ask my remaining questions.’ This sort of breaks the ice, and encourages a couple of people to wade in.

Case B indicates that the discussion has super stimulated the audience. Great! But wait. Man in first row, who’s been fidgeting expectantly for the last 15 mins, shoots straight up like he’s Chandrayaan III. On a turbo charge of hot air, he launches into a preamble, whose main purpose is to show that he knows more than those impostors up there, before framing his query. Answered, the moderator turns to the next hand stabbing the air, and says with a pasted smile, ‘Yes, the lady in red. Ma’am, do keep your question short.’ She doesn’t.

All this is preferable to the professorial sort who unfurls himself and his lengthy erudition till the moderator’s polite mask finally cracks with, ‘Sir, what is your question?’ The gentleman mumbles, then plonks down in a puddle of grumbles.

Invariably, there are those who insist on a dialogue with the panel after being answered. And the intrepid guy who manages to hijack the mike before it gets to the chosen questioner.

Btw, it’s mandatory for at least one to be anointed with: ‘That’s a really interesting question.’ The asker preens. The others crane back in envy.

* * *

Alec Smart said: “So, did the China virus originate in Woe-han?”

    

         DISCLAIMER : This article is intended to bring a smile to your face. Any connection to events and characters in real life is coincidental.