XE Market Analysis: Asia - Jan 29, 2020 
 FX trade was quiet ahead of the FOMC announcement, with narrow ranges holding for the major USD pairings. The dollar firmed up ever so slightly following the Fed announcement, where there were no changes to policy, as widely expected. USD-JPY edged to session highs of 109.25 from just under 109.20, as EUR-USD dipped to 1.0998 from 1.1005, though still above its earlier trend low of 1.9892. Wall Street added to previous gains, while yields were little changed. The FOMC statement said the "labor market remains strong and that economic activity has been rising at a moderate rate". There were no surprises in the statement, and as a result, there was little market reaction.



[EUR, USD]

EUR-USD printed fresh two-month lows of 1.0992 in early N.Y. trade, later climbing over 1.1010, then settling in just over the 1.1000 mark ahead of the FOMC announcement. The Fed's statement was in-line with expectations, resulting in little change to EUR-USD. The dollar has been outperforming the common currency in the context of rising risk aversion in global markets. The ECB left policy and guidance unchanged at its policy review last Thursday, with the central bank's president, Lagarde, stating that economic risks remain tilted to the downside and that accommodative monetary policy will remain in place for the foreseeable future. That plus an outperforming U.S. economy, and the Dollar's yields advantage, should keep the Euro under pressure.



[USD, JPY]

USD-JPY recovered from earlier lows of 108.97, to 109.19 highs, with modest gains coming as Wall Street turned higher, after struggling at the open. Coronavirus fears remain near the surface, and will likely limit USD-JPY gains for the time being, though the lack of new cases outside of China has been a net positive in terms of market sentiment. USD-JPY resistance remains at the 50-day moving average of 109.21, with support coming at 108.47, the 200-day moving average.



[GBP, USD]

Cable steadied after a run of consecutive down days amid position adjusting into Thursday's BoE monetary policy review. Cable topped above 1.3010, up from yesterday's nine-day low at 1.2975. UK money market futures are discounting about 50-50 odds for the BoE to cut the repo rate by 25 bp at its policy review this Thursday. We don't expect the BoE to cut, and therefore anticipate some scope for a rebound in the pound. Our view is that the majority of the nine member Monetary Policy Committee will want to refrain from easing amid signs of a post-election rebound in economic activity, as evidenced by a much stronger than expected rebound in preliminary PMI and CBI industrial trends January survey data.



[USD, CHF]

EUR-CHF bounced from 33-month low at 1.0665 on Tuesday, topping at 1.0725 in N.Y. trade. Gains came as risk appetite returned to a degree, with markets taking a break from coronavirus panic. Concerns about contagion of the coronavirus have been affecting market sentiment across the world. The franc had already rallied strongly earlier in the month following the surprising decision by the U.S. to add Switzerland to its list of currency manipulators earlier in the week. The U.S. move seems a bit rich given the franc is a demonstrably chronically-overvalued currency in purchasing parity terms (as illustrated by the Economist's Big Mac index), though the Trump administration argues that Switzerland needs a more expansive fiscal policy.



[USD, CAD]

USD-CAD touched intra day highs of 1.3210, up from Asian session lows of 1.3156. WTI crude is on session lows of $53.45, down from highs of $54.37, which came following reports of a Houthi missile strike on Saudi Arabia. No casualties or damage were reported, allowing oil prices to fall back. USD-CAD continues to correlate negatively with oil prices, with the latest sell-off bringing Tuesday's seven-week highs back into focus.