Copper, Crude, & The Yield Curve Crumble As Fed Flops, Virus Death-Count Pops 
 Stocks remain unfazed as coronavirus deaths and cases are exploding higher...

Hope has screamed higher since The Fed started expanding its balance sheet but 'hard' actual economic data has collapse...

But stocks are "Not A Bubble"...

China cash markets remain closed but futures are desperately trying to stabilize around 11-13% below last week highs...

European stocks rallied modestly today, extending yesterday's gains. Italy remains the only market in the green on the week with Germany weakest...

Mixed picture in US market today with Trannies best, Dow managing tiny gains (thanks to AAPL and BA), Nasdaq barely green, and Small Caps and the S&P red...

VWAP was serious support for much of the day (the smell of buyback programs dominated) but the cash open and The Fed's flop failed to provide any support...

Banks also did not like what Jay Powell was selling today...

Equity and credit protection costs jumped today and remain notably elevated from last week...

Meanwhile, options positioning is signaling a likely rise in vol is imminent...

Both bonds and stocks were bid today - widening the divergence between the two once again...

Treasury yields plunged today almost uniformly down 7bps across the curve... (2Y -5bps)

30Y Yields closed at their lowest since October 8th...

The yield curve is pushing back closer to inversion in the key 3s10s spread...

But a lot of the belly of the curve is inverted...

The Dollar round-tripped again today - the sixth day in a row that dollar-selling hit after Europe closed - weakenig notably after The Fed...

Yuan continues to refuse top play along with US equity market's optimism...

Bitcoin continues to push higher, above $9400 today to its highest in 3 months...

Commodities were mixed with Crude and Copper sliding (China virus fears) and PMs modestly higher...

Copper down for the 10th straight day...

Additionally, Soybean prices tumbled again - hardly a good sign for the phase one deal being completed...

Finally, with a h/t to @TaviCosta, commodity markets are behaving as if an equity selloff is imminent...

Traders are increasingly hoping for more rate cuts in 2020 (now pricing in at least 1.6 cuts by year-end)...