Nipissing University watching coronavirus situation 'carefully' 
 Nipissing University is “carefully monitoring” the ongoing coronavirus situation, a statement released by the post-secondary institution says.

The notice comes after two cases of coronavirus were confirmed in Toronto, while a third case has been identified in B.C.

Another 23 cases also are currently under investigation in Ontario.

The university has since posted a list of frequently asked questions on its website and is urging those seeking information to consult trusted sources such as Ontario.ca/coronavirus.

“Health officials continue to advise that the risk of contracting the virus remains low,” the statement from the university says, adding it will continue to keep the community informed of new developments.

Nipissing University Students Union (NUSU) communications director Sarah McGown says NUSU also is working with administration to ensure students have the most accurate and updated information.

Chinese health authorities identified a new, or novel, coronavirus known as 2019-nCoV on New Year’s Eve through a series of reported cases of pneumonia in Wuhan, China.

Symptoms range from common to severe respiratory illnesses and include fever, cough, difficulty breathing, pneumonia and kidney failure.

As of Wednesday morning, the virus had killed 132 people and infected more than 6,000 on the Chinese mainland and abroad.

Canada’s Foreign Affairs Minister Francois-Philippe Champagne has said at least 250 Canadians have registered with Global Affairs Canada to say they are in Wuhan.

Champagne said Wednesday that a plane is preparing to fly Canadians out of the province.

The Ontario government released a joint statement from Health Minister Christine Elliott and Minister of Colleges and Universities Ross Romano saying that the health and well-being of Ontarians, including post-secondary students and faculty from Canada and elsewhere, is their No. 1 priority.

The ministers says chief medical officer of health Dr. David Williams and associated chief medical officer of health Dr. Barbara Yaffe are in regular contact with leaders in education, informing them of provincial protocols to monitor, detect and contain cases of coronavirus, including leading briefings this week with leaders from Ontario colleges and universities.

The province also is working with the Public Health Agency of Canada and local public health units.

“Existing protocols have been strengthened surrounding the identification and control of the 2019 novel coronavirus in Ontario. Everyone should take comfort in knowing that our skilled health-care providers are bringing their considerable experience to effectively monitor and respond to any reported cases, including the two confirmed cases in Toronto,” the statement says.

Students concerned about false information circulation online are encouraged to visit the province’s dedicated web page on coronavirus, the ministers say.

“We want to assure everyone that the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of College and Universities are working in cooperation with our partners in both the health-care and post-secondary sectors to ensure the continued safety and well-being of our college and university communities.”

Anyone who experiences coronavirus symptoms and has recently travelled internationally to an affected region is asked to avoid contact with others and to reach out to their health-care professional or nearest hospital.

With files from The Canadian Press