Americans stuck in Wuhan amid coronavirus outbreak say city is like ‘Twilight Zone’ episode 
 An American teacher trapped in the Chinese city at the heart of the coronavirus outbreak says his life has turned into an episode of “The Twilight Zone.”

John McGory, an Ohio native who’s taught English in Wuhan for the last six years, described in a blog post how the city has turned into a ghost town since being put on lockdown last week.

“Wuhan seems like it stepped into a ‘Twilight Zone’ episode,” McGory wrote. “Eleven million people in this usually bustling 3,500-year-old city sit silent in the shadows.”

McGory, 65, said he and other teachers at a university in Wuhan “are all getting a little squirrely.”

“Nobody’s working. Nobody’s going anywhere. Nobody’s on campus,” he told USA Today on Wednesday.

“People are afraid,” McGory added. “People don’t know what’s going to happen.

“You get a little sore throat — is that the beginning of the end? It’s a battle inside your own head.”

McGory was one of the 1,000 Americans in Wuhan when the city was effectively quarantined in an effort to curb the spread of the outbreak, which has killed 132 people in China and infected thousands more.

While a group of about 200 were evacuated on a State Department flight, he and many others weren’t able to secure a seat on the plane.

Getty Images
Sam Roth, 35, of Wisconsin, said his wife and two children weren’t able to get spots on the jet, which landed in Anchorage, en route to California early Wednesday.

His wife, Daisy Roth, and their 10-month-old and 5-year-old daughters, had gone to Wuhan to visit family Jan. 19, and are now holed up in an apartment in the city. He said he panics every time he sees the death and infection tolls rising — but is trying to remain calm.

“The disease is dangerous as it is, but public panic, and the reactions that come with panic, is something we can control. And we should,” Roth said.

Another American teacher, Diana Adama, told the outlet the hardest thing to grapple with is a lack of information.

“We’re kind of paralyzed. We’re not getting information from the government, school, nothing,” said Adama, adding that she found out about the lockdown on Twitter.

“We’re all cooped up here knowing nothing. We are sitting here on ground zero not knowing what to do or who to believe.”