Lawmaker: China to allow U.S. health officials entry to study coronavirus 
 U.S. health officials have received the “green light” to travel to China to study the coronavirus, lawmakers told The Hill on Wednesday.

“They just got the green light,” Rep. Ann Wagner Ann Louise WagnerDCCC to run ads tying 11 House Republicans to Trump remarks on entitlements GOP can beat Democrats after impeachment — but it needs to do this one thing Group of veterans call on lawmakers to support impeachment, 'put country over politics' MORE (R-Mo.) said as she emerged from an all-member coronavirus briefing in the House hosted by Trump administration officials.

“I’m pleased that the CDC and the NIH, and our scientists and research specialists will be over there embedded with the Chinese to actually find out what the scope of the problems is with this virus, to hopefully come up with a cure,” Wagner said.

The World Health Organization on Tuesday received permission from China to send a team of experts to collaborate with the Chinese government.

WHO said the team is going to “work with Chinese counterparts on increasing understanding of the outbreak to guide global response efforts.”

But it was not clear if that team included members of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) or National Institutes of Health (NIH).

“The WHO is over there right now, but the CDC and NIH are our people. Then once they get eyes on it, they’ll get a better sense. It will happen pretty soon,” Wagner added.

U.S. health officials have formally offered assistance to China on two separate occasions; once to the country’s health minister, and another time through the WHO during a meeting in Beijing.

Among the Trump administration officials who briefed lawmakers Wednesday was immigration hard-liner Ken Cuccinelli, the acting deputy secretary of the Homeland Security Department.

Other lawmakers leaving the briefing said CDC and NIH officials stressed that the risk to Americans was low, and that the agency has enough funding to deal with the response.

The coronavirus outbreak has killed at least 132 people in China, with over 6,000 confirmed cases of infection. But there are only five confirmed cases in the U.S.