Gold ends slightly higher as traders eye economic impact of coronavirus 
 Gold futures finished with a modest gain on Wednesday, as traders weighed the spread of coronavirus cases and its potential impact on the global economy.

In electronic trading Wednesday afternoon, prices held ground near the day’s settlement as the U.S. Federal Reserve left its benchmark fed-funds interest rate unchanged in at a 1.50%-1.75% range.

The rating-setting Federal Open Market Committee “will remain on hold with interest rates for the foreseeable future,” Chris Gaffney, president of World Markets at TIAA Bank, told MarketWatch shortly after the policy announcement. “The impetus for the Fed to make any interest rate moves will be reduced as we get deeper into this election year.”

Gold for February delivery GCG20, +0.46%  on Comex settled at $1,570.40 an ounce, up 60 cents, or 0.04%. In electronic trading shortly after the decision, prices traded at $1,572.10.

“The FOMC decision failed to turbocharge market reaction and the fact the Fed didn’t mention anything [about] Coronavirus made it clear for investors that the Fed isn’t worried,” said Naeem Aslam, chief market analyst at AvaTrade.

However, during a news conference to discuss policy, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell said that the central bank was monitoring the novel coronavirus, referring to it specifically during his statement.

Gold has struggled to move up on the back of robust earnings, which helped to lift U.S. benchmark stock indexes.

Gold on Tuesday lost 0.5%, pulling back from a more-than-six-year high as equities bounced back from the previous session’s steep, virus-inspired selloff, dulling the metal’s haven appeal.

The coronavirus has now infected at least 5,327 people in China, while the death toll in the country has risen to 132.

Read: Growing number of airlines cancel flights to contain global spread of coronavirus

“Gold will remain heavily influenced by the coronavirus fears which have renewed concerns over slowing global growth,” said Lukman Otunuga, senior research analyst at FXTM.

Cases have been confirmed in 16 countries, including Taiwan, Germany, Vietnam, Japan, Australia, the U.S., and the United Arab Emirates, but no deaths outside of China have been reported.

“Even if prevailing concerns fade…gold is likely to continue benefitting from supportive central bank policies,” analysts at Zaner Metals wrote in a daily note. And looking further ahead, “we expect global slowdown concerns to re-emerge, which should lead to rising volatility in equity markets and, in turn, encourage higher allocations into gold and other precious metals.”

Meanwhile, March silver SIH20, +0.56%  added 2.9 cents, or 0.2%, to $17.487 an once after suffering a 3.3% fall on Tuesday.

“Although it is a precious metal with an industrial character, silver had clung firmly to gold’s coattails in the previous days and resisted the weak base metals prices,” said Daniel Briesemann, analyst at Commerzbank. “It has now taken a hit after all, however. Because silver dipped below the technically important 100-day moving average yesterday, the price slide could continue somewhat.”

In other metals trading, April platinum PLJ20, -1.46%  fell 2% to $975.30 an ounce, while March palladium PAH20, +1.19%  rose 0.8% to $2,202.20 an ounce.