Wall St flat as Fed leaves interest rates on hold 
 The US central bank has kept official interest rates on hold at its first policy meeting of the year, as expected, but the Federal Reserve chairman warned coronavirus would disrupt the Chinese economy.

The Fed pointed to a strong jobs market and moderate economic growth in keeping its key overnight lending rate at 1.50 per cent to 1.75 per cent.

"Job gains have been solid … and the unemployment rate has remained low," it said in a statement.

Compared to its December statement, the US central bank described household spending as moderate rather than strong. It also said business fixed investment and exports "remain weak".

The Fed cut rates three times last year to help boost the US economy, which was damaged by the trade dispute between the US and China.

Some analysts expect the Fed to cut rates again this year if the US economy slows.

Commonwealth Bank currency strategist Joseph Capurso said he expected the Fed to cut rates again, but not until September and December.

"While the Fed chair continues to signal that policy is appropriate, downside risks to growth and below target inflation mean that we continue to expect the FOMC to cut the funds rate twice more in 2020 to a range of 1.00 to 1.25 per cent," he explained.

Fed chairman Jerome Powell said coronavirus was likely to cause economic disruption in China.

"Of course the situation is really in its early stages and it's very uncertain about how much it will spread and what the macroeconomic effects would be in China and its immediate trading partners and neighbours and around the world."

The virus has already caused economic disruption, with companies, including Google, temporarily closing its offices in China and restricting travel.

Starbucks dropped 2 per cent after it closed 2,000 stores in China — around half of its outlets.

The Dow Jones index ran out of steam and ended flat at 28,734, with coronavirus fears weighing on the market.

Apple shares rose to a fresh record high after its earnings were better than expected for the holiday season, boosted by strong iPhone sales.

Boeing rose despite making its first annual loss in two decades. It expects the cost of grounding its 737 MAX jets to be nearly $US19 billion, but that was less than feared by analysts.

The European Parliament gave its final approval for the UK to leave the EU, paving the way for Brexit by the end of the month.

The FT100 in London was flat at 7,484.

In futures trade, the ASX SPI 200 index was down 0.1 per cent to 6,954.

The Australian dollar fell slightly on a stronger greenback to 67.50 US cents.