More than 200 Americans evacuated from Wuhan to be screened for coronavirus 
 A chartered flight evacuated 201 American citizens from Wuhan, China to be screened in Southern California for Coronavirus. One of those passengers was Hermoine Dicke, 8, (left) and her mother, Priscilla. (Picture: AP/NBC)More than 200 Americans have been evacuated from Wuhan, China to be screened for coronavirus, according to federal health officials.

The group has been taken to a military base in Southern California where they will be kept for three days while medical staff monitors their health.

At a news conference, Dr Chris Braden, who is with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said the evacuees are not quarantined and the agreed to a 72-hour ‘hold’ that requires them to stay at the base.

Braden added that he greeted the passengers when their flight stopped to refuel at March Air Reserve Base in Alaska and ‘they were happy to be here.’

The evacuees will undergo blood tests on the base which will be sent to the CDC’s Atlanta facilities. The results should be available before their three-day stay at the base is over.


The American evacuees landed in Riverside, California on Wednesday. (Picture: Fox News)Rear Admiral Dr Nancy Night of the CDC said: ‘The CDC Atlanta lab is the only laboratory in the country that is able to do this testing for the novel coronavirus.’

When asked what would happen if one of the evacuees demanded to leave, Knight said: ‘They can leave. However, they are sitting in the middle of a military base. Any discussion around departure would be just that – would be a discussion.’

Father 'who killed three relatives then snatched infant son' is found deadBraden said if any of the evacuees need to be quarantined, officials will do so. He added that one person had been barred from entering the plane because they showed signs of illness.

Before arriving in California, the passengers underwent two health screenings in Wuhan before their flight took off, and two when they arrived in Alaska to refuel.

While on the base, ‘evacuees will not have access to any base location other than their assigned housing,’ Department of Defense press secretary Alyssa Farah said.


Passengers aboard the evacuation flight were reportedly screened for the virus four times before they landed in California. (Picture: Storyful)Coronavirus has reportedly killed 132 people since it was first identified last month. All of the victims have been in mainland China and their are currently more than 6,000 confirmed cases, according to Johns Hopkins University.

The decision to evacuate citizens from Wuhan came after France, Canada, New Zealand and Britain declared they are planning evacuations.

French officials said a military aircraft with a medical team is leaving the Chinese city on Wednesday night to evacuate approximately 200 French citizens.

Germany, Spain, Denmark and Poland reportedly want to get citizens on the French flight. Mexico and Mauritius have also asked to join the evacuation.