‘Whole world needs to be on alert’ for coronavirus outbreak, World Health Organization warns 
 The United Nations’ health agency warned leaders across the world Wednesday to prepare for a dangerous new virus that has killed more than 130 people in China and continues to spread between people outside of that country.The vast majority of the nearly 6,100 cases of the newly discovered coronavirus have been reported in China, but the U.N.’s World Health Organization has now confirmed a few cases of human-to-human transmission outside the Asian nation. “The whole world needs to be on alert. The whole world needs to take action and be ready for any cases that come," Dr. Michael Ryans, the agency’s emergencies chief, told reporters at a news conference in Geneva, Switzerland. WHO officials also announced they have reconvened an expert panel to assess whether the deadly outbreak should be declared a global health emergency, a rarely used designation that triggers a massive international response. The pneumonia-like infection is believed to have originated last month at a seafood and animal market in Wuhan, a city in central China’s Hubei province that has since been locked down to prevent the spread of the virus.The outbreak has raised fears of an international epidemic similar to SARS, another type of coronavirus that began in China and spread to more than a dozen countries in 2002-2003, killing hundreds of people. The number of patients diagnosed with the new illness has already surpassed SARS, which sickened just over 5,300 people. China has been widely praised for its quick and drastic response to the crisis. The country has suspended public transportation in at least 17 cities, closed many tourist attractions and canceled major events to block the spread of the virus. Two new hospitals are also being built in Wuhan to accommodate the growing number of patients. “The challenge is great, but the response has been massive,” Ryan said at Wednesday’s news conference. “The Chinese government deserves huge credit for that response.”At least one major sports event has also been canceled. The World Athletics Indoor Championships, which were set to be held in eastern China’s Nanjing in March, was postponed until next year.Officials in the U.S., where five cases have been reported so far, have urged travelers not to go to Hubei. More than 200 Americans arrived in California Wednesday after being flown out of Wuhan in a U.S. government chartered flight.