Passenger on flight from Beijing evaluated at Logan; refused hospitalization 
 Passenger on flight from Beijing evaluated at Logan; refused hospitalization, Boston EMS says

A person who arrived at Logan International Airport on a flight from Beijing was medically evaluated Wednesday, according to Boston Emergency Medical Services.Boston EMS officials told WCVB that the patient refused transportation to an area hospital for further treatment.A source said this patient was able to refuse EMS transport to a hospital because the person was not showing any symptoms related to the Wuhan coronavirus.Other passengers on that flight were screened, but officials said nothing unusual was noticed.The Massachusetts Port Authority confirmed that a person was evaluated by medical personnel at Terminal E. The Boston Public Health Commission also confirmed that there was a sick person on a plane at Logan.Passengers aboard that flight from Beijing told NewsCenter 5’s Mary Saladna that they did not notice a sick person aboard the plane.Massport said it still has not been contacted by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in order to start screening for the coronavirus at Logan Airport.Travelers who are arriving to and departing from Logan are taking precautions. Many passengers and flight crew members traveling through Terminal E could be seen wearing medical masks. The World Health Organization will hold an emergency meeting Thursday to decide if the current coronavirus outbreak warrants a declaration of an international health emergency.At least 132 people have died in China from this novel virus, and there are more than 6,000 confirmed cases of infection.More than 200 Americans were evacuated from Wuhan, the Chinese city at the center of the outbreak. They arrived in California on Wednesday afternoon, where they were screened.

A person who arrived at Logan International Airport on a flight from Beijing was medically evaluated Wednesday, according to Boston Emergency Medical Services.

Boston EMS officials told WCVB that the patient refused transportation to an area hospital for further treatment.

A source said this patient was able to refuse EMS transport to a hospital because the person was not showing any symptoms related to the Wuhan coronavirus.

Other passengers on that flight were screened, but officials said nothing unusual was noticed.

The Massachusetts Port Authority confirmed that a person was evaluated by medical personnel at Terminal E. The Boston Public Health Commission also confirmed that there was a sick person on a plane at Logan.

Passengers aboard that flight from Beijing told NewsCenter 5’s Mary Saladna that they did not notice a sick person aboard the plane.

Massport said it still has not been contacted by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in order to start screening for the coronavirus at Logan Airport.

Travelers who are arriving to and departing from Logan are taking precautions. Many passengers and flight crew members traveling through Terminal E could be seen wearing medical masks.

The World Health Organization will hold an emergency meeting Thursday to decide if the current coronavirus outbreak warrants a declaration of an international health emergency.

At least 132 people have died in China from this novel virus, and there are more than 6,000 confirmed cases of infection.

More than 200 Americans were evacuated from Wuhan, the Chinese city at the center of the outbreak. They arrived in California on Wednesday afternoon, where they were screened.