WHO to decide whether spread of coronavirus constitutes global emergency 
 The World Health Organisation has voiced "grave concern" about the person-to-person spread of coronavirus in three other countries ahead of an emergency committee meeting to decide whether it now constitutes a global emergency.

Director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the WHO was worried by the progress of the virus in Germany, Vietnam and Japan, especially in human-to-human transmission.

There have been 6,065 cases of the flu-like virus in 15 countries worldwide, according to the latest WHO figures.

All the deaths so far have been in China.

The WHO's panel of 16 independent experts twice last week declined to declare an international emergency.

"We are at an important juncture in this event. We believe these chains of transmission can still be interrupted," Mike Ryan, executive director of the WHO's Health Emergencies Program, said.

Dr Ryan also praised China's response, saying: "They are taking extraordinary measures in the face of what is an extraordinary challenge".

The situation remained "grim and complex", said Chinese President Xi Jinping, who has vowed to defeat the "devil" virus.

United States President Donald Trump said he had spoken to Mr Xi and his administration was working closely with China on containing the outbreak.

Some major airlines suspended flights to China, and a senior economist predicted a major impact on growth.

Australia announced it will evacuate Australians trapped in Hubei province, the centre of the outbreak, and transfer them to a quarantine centre on Christmas Island.

The United States flew about 210 Americans out of Wuhan, to be screened several times on arrival in California.

France has sent a plane to evacuate 200 citizens and two other flights are possible, while the United Kingdom's Foreign Office said it was "working urgently to organise a flight to the UK as soon as possible". Canada was also organising evacuations.

The number of cases of the new virus in China now exceeds the 5,327 that were infected with the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which also originated in China and killed about 800 people globally in 2002 and 2003.

While some experts believe the new strain, known as "2019-nCoV", is not as deadly as SARS, alarm has grown over its rapid spread and many unknown attributes.

"There have been more cases in China, but so far with a lower death rate than the SARS outbreak," said Michael Head, a health researcher at the University of Southampton.

Like other respiratory infections, the new virus is spread by droplets from coughs and sneezes, with an incubation time between one and 14 days.