Coronavirus: Air New Zealand's big decision 
 A few months ago, Air New Zealand's new CEO would have been flying 39,000 feet above the Pacific on the way back home.

After a hugely successful stint as Walmart's USA CEO, he would have no doubt pushed the recline button in his business class seat, a happy man.

Air New Zealand was highly profitable, it was fortunate the airline didn't order any grounded 737 MAX aircraft, and the world's best airline awards just kept rolling in. Of course, there were still headwinds ahead, such as climate change and softening tourism. A challenge any experienced CEO would relish.

Fast-forward three months, and those headwinds have turned into a force five hurricane. Foran faces turmoil because of coronavirus.

READ MORE:

 * Coronavirus: World airlines suspend China flights, cut services on virus fears

 * MFAT advises against 'non-essential travel' to China as coronavirus outbreak worsens

 * Coronavirus cases highly likely to arrive in NZ, health officials say as they seek extra quarantine powers

Chinese tour groups are no longer able to travel - many of them use the national carrier, especially for domestic flights. And now, he faces a big decision.

In a sign of how significant a global challenge the virus has become, major carriers such as British Airways are suspending flights to China.

So, will Air New Zealand follow suit and suspend services? I'm certain discussions are underway right now down at their waterfront headquarters.

Crucially, our Government is now advising against all but essential travel to China.

The national carrier serves Shanghai with daily services, providing connections all throughout China with Star Alliance partner Air China. Shanghai so far has 96 confirmed cases.

Suspending the fights would be a big step. Firstly, it'd cost the airline millions; it could be months or longer before the route is reestablished. Secondly, it would set a precedent. If a large coronavirus virus outbreak affected one of its other ports, such as Hong Kong, Tokyo, or even Sydney - the airline would be under enormous pressure to follow suit and ground flights there.

Adding to the pressure to suspend, the airline's bookings will be drying up, and flights need to be relatively full to make money.

On the flip side, continuing services is an enormous risk. If cases of coronavirus are detected in New Zealand, a full investigation will be conducted into how that person entered the country. If they came on an Air New Zealand flight, when other carriers had suspended services, it'd be a PR nightmare. Especially if the virus spreads further in New Zealand.

Then there's the risk of one of the airline's cabin crew members getting sick.

A secondary consideration is Pacific Island flights. If the virus were to establish here, there's a risk countries like Samoa - recently ravaged by the measles epidemic - could demand all flights are grounded. It would have a huge impact on the airline's business.

The Government is also under pressure - should it ground flights between New Zealand and China? There are more than 50 direct flights a week, most of those flown by Chinese carriers such as China Southern or Air China. Chinese airlines generally carry more locals, so arguably there's more risk the virus could enter on one of their carriers.

What's clear is a domino of fear and panic has started. It's a great test - three months into the job - as to what Greg Foran's decision will be.