Nico Porteous' Winter X Games plans wrecked by coronavirus 
 Nico Porteous is the youngest Kiwi ever to win an Olympic medal.

Kiwi freeskier Nico Porteous' hopes of competing the first ever Winter X Games in China have been dashed by the deadly coronavirus.

The event was scheduled to run from February 21-23 in Chongli, Zhangjiakou, which is about 1300km from Wuhan, the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak.

But event organisers have deemed the risk to athletes too great, and the games have been postponed.

The news comes on the same day it was announced the world indoor athletics championships were also cancelled, denying New Zealand athletes like Tom Walsh and Valerie Adams a shot at pre-Olymipc gold.

READ MORE:

 * Tom Walsh, Valerie Adams denied shot at world indoors due to Coronavirus fears

 * 10-year-old boy raises fears Wuhan coronavirus could spread undetected

 * Winter X Games 2020: Nico Porteous misses medals at X Games Aspen

There is no word yet on when the X Games will be held, but in a statement organisers said they would continue to "closely monitor" the situation.

"Due to the ongoing coronavirus concerns, the X Games Chongli 2020 event will be postponed until a later date," the statement said.

"The safety of our athletes, staff and spectators is our top priority."

Porteous was set to compete at the event, hoping to build on his great showing at the recent Aspen leg of the competition.

Porteous came agonisingly close to picking up a medal there, finishing fourth after coming back from a less than ideal start to his run.

He was just 16 when he became New Zealand's youngest-ever Olympic medallist with a bronze in the halfpipe at the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang.

Snow Sports NZ told Stuff they received the news of the Chongli event's cancellation earlier in the week.

"At this point we don't have much more information other than that the event has been postponed," communications manager Alex Kerr said.

"Nico Porteous was the only athlete from New Zealand planning to compete. He's currently in the US getting ready to compete at the Dew Tour next week.

"The health and safety of athletes and staff is our top priority so we fully understand and support the decision by the X Games organisers to postpone the event.