No significant changes to UW schedules due to coronavirus 
 A petition by a student from the University of Waterloo has over 30,000 signatures, aiming to "close all campuses in Ontario to stop the Wuhan virus." 


In the petition, creator Ryan Han talks about a tremendous fear that he and his schoolmates are experiencing due to the spread of the coronavirus.


He says that many students with flu-like symptoms refuse to stay home for fear of missing lectures, and therefore want school campuses across Ontario to be closed.


Matthew Grant, Director of Communications at the University of Waterloo, said that significant changes like that are not up to the school. 


"We haven't received any information from Public Health that we should change the way we deliver education," explained Grant. "Whether it be class schedules or how that education is delivered, any changes made in that regard would be based on the best available health information, and that comes from Public Health."


Grant also added that the school is monitoring the situation closely, and has taken some precautions.


"Our health centre has enhanced its triage protocols, so we are now asking all patients upon entering the health facility about recent travel, and whether they have any respiratory symptoms," said Grant. "Based on that information, we may ask them to wear a mask. That is a precaution only, we haven't received any information from Public Health that would indicate that we have cause for concern. In fact, what we've heard from Public Health is that the risk in Ontario is low."


Despite fears of missing class, Grant pointed out that, in general, students experiencing sickness such as the flu or a cold should seek medical assistance and try not to pass it on to others.


"Being flu season, having students that are experiencing illness is not something new for the University or for Canada in general," said Grant.


He added that anyone who wants to stay informed about the situation with the coronavirus outbreak should go to the campus wellness website, or the websites for the Public Health Agency of Canada and the Ministry of Health.