Britons stuck even longer in coronavirus-struck Wuhan after UK flight delay 
 Britons fearing for their safety stuck in the epicentre of the fatal coronavirus have been told they cannot get a flight home on Thursday.

Around 200 people had been expected to board the chartered flight to the UK on Thursday but it is understood Chinese officials have not yet granted permission for departure.

The news comes as the number of people killed by the virus has risen to 162 with 4,586 people infected, said the health commission for Hubei.

Health Secretary Matt Hancock chaired a Cobra emergency committee on Wednesday evening, in a desperate bid to stop the virus spreading to the UK.

Downing Street said earlier that Britons returning from Wuhan had agreed to be placed in quarantine for 14 days at a UK military base.

But Number 10 had refused to confirm where the Britons would be taken following the civilian charter flight to airlift them from the region.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: ‘We are doing everything we can to get British people in Wuhan safely back to the UK. A number of countries’ flights have been unable to take off as planned.

‘We continue working urgently to organise a flight to the UK as soon as possible.

‘We remain in close contact with the Chinese authorities and conversations are ongoing at all levels.’

The move comes after Britons returning to the UK expressed fury after being told they must ‘self-isolate’.

But Britons due to board the flight back from Wuhan said they had been told by authorities to make their own way through the city to Wuhan airport.

They claimed they were told that once they land on British soil they are expected to make their own way home, potentially coming into contact with hundreds of people on the way.

Experts in China have said there is evidence that people could transmit the virus without showing any symptoms, although UK experts think the risk is low.

Kharn Lambert, whose grandmother Veronica Theobald, 81, from Lancaster, had been booked on a flight leaving Wuhan on Thursday.

Ahead of the flight delay announcement, Mr Lambert said: ‘She is relieved, so am I, but she’s frustrated with the restrictions being put in place. She can only take 15kg of hand luggage and she came here with about 30kg of stuff.’

He said his grandmother had been told previously she would have to get from London to Lancaster on her own.

The Foreign Office updated its advice on Tuesday to warn against all but essential travel to mainland China, saying it may become more difficult for British nationals in other provinces to leave.

On Wednesday, British Airways announced it was suspending all flights to and from mainland China with immediate effect.

Virgin Atlantic said its flights between Heathrow and Shanghai will continue to operate as scheduled, although passengers are able to rebook or obtain a refund free of charge.

Chinese airlines which serve UK airports such as Heathrow, Gatwick and Manchester – including Air China, China Southern Airlines, China Eastern Airlines, Hainan Airlines and Tianjin Airlines – all appear to be operating flights as normal.