Overnight Health Care — Presented by Philip Morris International — Dems warn Trump against Medicaid block grants | Sanders under pressure on how to pay for 'Medicare for All' | China to allow in US health officials to study coronavirus 
 The Trump Medicaid block grant guidance is coming tomorrow, and Democratic lawmakers are already pushing back. Bernie Sanders Bernie SandersNew campaign ad goes after Sanders by mentioning heart attack Biden on whether Sanders can unify party as nominee: 'It depends' Steyer rebukes Biden for arguing with supporter he thought was Sanders voter MORE isn't interested in talking about how he'll pay for "Medicare for All," and taking heat from his rivals. And the U.S. is readying a team to head to China to study coronavirus.

The Trump administration on Thursday is poised to roll out its plan to let states cap some of their Medicaid funding in the form of a block grant, and Democrats are already vowing to fight it.

More than 30 House Democrats are warning the Trump administration that it should not allow states to turn their Medicaid funding into block grants.

The letter, led by Reps. Joe Kennedy Joseph (Joe) Patrick KennedyAyanna Pressley's 'squad' of congresswomen offers support after she opens up about alopecia Lawmakers press Trump officials to change federal marijuana rules Trump and Pelosi clash over Iran, impeachment MORE III (D-Mass.) and Jim Cooper James (Jim) Hayes Shofner CooperTaylor Swift on publicist's Trump warning before political post: 'F--- that, I don't care' Overnight Health Care — Presented by National Taxpayers Union — Buttigieg targets Warren, Sanders on health care ahead of debate | Judge overturns ObamaCare transgender protections | Poll sees support drop for 'Medicare for All' The Memo: Democrats plunge into politics of impeachment MORE (D-Tenn.) and signed by 34 other Democrats, argues that block grants are illegal.

"The administration should not issue any guidance encouraging block grant waivers, should reject these waivers and the concept of block grants, and urge any state that is considering this misguided policy to commit its energy to implementing Medicaid as Congress intends," the Democrats wrote.

The controversial plan has been long sought by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Seema Verma, who will announce it at an event Thursday morning.

Why a block grant? Under a block grant, states would receive a fixed amount of money from the federal government, regardless of outside circumstances, that they could spend however they see fit without any federal guidelines. Imposing block grants in Medicaid has long been a major conservative goal, and would represent a radical departure from how the Medicaid program operates.

Sanders under increasing pressure on funding for 'Medicare for All'

For a while it was mostly Sen. Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth Ann WarrenBiden on whether Sanders can unify party as nominee: 'It depends' Overnight Health Care — Presented by Philip Morris International — HHS has no plans to declare emergency over coronavirus | GOP senator calls for travel ban to stop outbreak | Warren releases plan to contain infectious diseases Biden lines up high-profile surrogates to campaign in Iowa MORE (D-Mass.) getting questions on how to pay for Medicare for All. But now her rival for the Democratic nomination, Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) is getting some of that scrutiny, especially now that he's rising in the polls.

Sanders's response: He's been brushing off the questions. When faced with sharp questions on the topic in an interview with CBS News on Friday, Sanders said "nobody knows" how much his plan would cost and that it's "impossible to predict."

Contrast with Warren: Elizabeth Warren, by contrast, laid out a detailed financing plan after months of questions.

"As detailed as Bernie Sanders's damn Medicare for All bill is, there are some big things left out of it," said Larry Levitt of the Kaiser Family Foundation.

A federal appeals court voted against rehearing a legal challenge to ObamaCare after a three-judge panel struck down the health care law's individual mandate.

The 5th Circuit Court of Appeals voted 8-6, mostly along ideological lines, against rehearing the case, after one of the judges asked for a vote.

Neither party in the lawsuit had asked the circuit court to rehear the case. A coalition of blue states has already appealed to the Supreme Court, which is currently deciding whether to take it up.

The Trump administration has refused to defend the law in court and has cheered on the legal effort to dismantle it.

China to allow US health officials entry to study coronavirus

U.S. health officials have received the "green light" to travel to China to study the coronavirus, lawmakers told The Hill on Wednesday.

"They just got the green light," Rep. Ann Wagner Ann Louise WagnerDCCC to run ads tying 11 House Republicans to Trump remarks on entitlements GOP can beat Democrats after impeachment — but it needs to do this one thing Group of veterans call on lawmakers to support impeachment, 'put country over politics' MORE (R-Mo.) said as she emerged from an all-member coronavirus briefing in the House hosted by Trump administration officials.

"I'm pleased that the CDC and the NIH, and our scientists and research specialists will be over there embedded with the Chinese to actually find out what the scope of the problems is with this virus, to hopefully come up with a cure," Wagner said.

There are still only five confirmed cases of coronavirus in the U.S., CDC officials said Wednesday, and all are travel-related. An additional 92 patients are under investigation, and they expect to find more cases.

The World Health Organization on Tuesday received permission from China to send a team of experts to collaborate with the Chinese government.

WHO said the team is going to "work with Chinese counterparts on increasing understanding of the outbreak to guide global response efforts."

Nancy Messonnier, director of CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases said on Wednesday that agency experts have been invited to work with the WHO team.

WHO will also reconvene an emergency committee on Thursday to re-evaluate its earlier decision not to declare the outbreak a global public health emergency.

WHO officials on Wednesday also offered praise for China's efforts. WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he has been criticized for praising the communist nation, but he noted China has likely helped to reduce the spread of the virus. U.S. health officials have offered similar sentiments about China's transparency, especially compared with how the country dealt with the SARS epidemic in 2003.

'Block grants' no more: Trump's Medicaid overhaul has new name, same goals (Politico)

Terminally ill, he wanted aid-in-dying. His Catholic hospital said no (Kaiser Health News)

9 things Americans need to learn from the rest of the world's health care systems (Vox.com)

Controversial anti-abortion activist wants a guarantee her new group will be eligible for Title X funding next year (Texas Observer)

US government basically declares war on millions of school children