Morning Briefing: Top stories from on Jan 30 
 Good morning! Here are our top stories to kick-start your Thursday, Jan 30.



 

 Medical staff in protective suits treat a patient with pneumonia caused by the new coronavirus at the Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, on Jan 27, 2020. PHOTO: REUTERS 



A further 1,032 cases had been detected in the province.



 A child wears a face masks upon arrival at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Sepang on Jan 29, 2020. PHOTO: AFP 



Although the numbers outside China are still relatively small, they hold the potential for a much larger outbreak, said WHO.



 Singapore Airlines' announcement is the latest in a series of precautions airlines have taken after warnings about travel to China following the Wuhan virus outbreak. PHOTO: ST FILE 



SIA said that operating them as turnaround flights is "a precautionary measure for the safety of our crew".



 Punggol and Sengkang had the highest number of newer flats sold from 2011 to last year. PHOTO: ST FILE 



Experts said the trend reflects the changing lifestyles and upgrading aspirations of younger people.



 Passengers (left) waiting to check in at a designated but unmarked check-in counter at Changi Airport's Terminal 2, set up for people boarding a Scoot flight to Wuhan, on Jan 29, 2020. ST PHOTO: TOH TING WEI 



After checking in, the passengers were taken straight to the gates to board the plane.



 Travellers with protective masks lining up before boarding their train at the Beijing West Railway Station on Jan 24, 2020, as they travel for the Chinese New Year holidays. PHOTO: AFP 



A minority may be exploiting the situation to give voice to longstanding unease over the presence of Chinese nationals in Singapore, said observers.



 Boris Kunsevitsky, 53, was sentenced by a Melbourne court after he pleaded guilty last May to 59 charges involving sexually abusing children under 16 years old and producing child pornography. PHOTO: ESTHEMEDICA 



Five of the victims were in Singapore.



 Marina Bay Sands staff wearing masks while attending to hotel guests. At firms like OCBC Bank, masks are distributed to all front-line staff. The cleaning regime in common areas is also being stepped up. ST PHOTO: CHONG JUN LIANG 



Regular temperature screenings have also been put in place, while some firms are offering paid leave to their employees.

About 50 per cent of the cases were linked to nationality, while 25 per cent were related to age or gender.



 People at having their meals Ci Yuan Hawker Centre, on Nov 9, 2018. PHOTO: ST FILE 



"Hawker food makes Singapore unique. It is part of our national identity," said Prof Koh at the launch of a new book.