New Zealand citizens in coronavirus outbreak won't be kept on Christmas Island 
 New Zealanders being evacuated in a joint rescue mission with Australia will not be sent to Christmas Island, the foreign minister has said.

New Zealand consular officials will join an Australian consular team in Wuhan on Thursday to work through the details of the evacuation plan, the ministry of foreign affairs said.

There are currently 82 New Zealanders registered on Safetravel as being in Wuhan, and 57 of those have sought consular assistance.

On Wednesday, Australia and New Zealand agreed to a joint rescue mission to bring their citizens home, and Australian prime minister Scott Morrison said more than 400 Australians would be flown to Christmas Island to be screened and quarantined. Qantas has offered a plane for the mission.

On Thursday, New Zealand foreign minister Winston Peters offered assurances that New Zealanders would not be quarantined on Christmas Island – better known as Australia’s most infamous off-shore asylum processing centre – but would instead be quarantined somewhere in New Zealand.

Plans of where and how they would be quarantined are still in their early stages, Peters said, and no further details could be given at this stage.

It was likely dependent family of New Zealanders in Wuhan would be included in the “complex” rescue mission, he said. “We’re looking at the quarantine options within New Zealand, we’re working on that,” Peters told Morning Report.

Peters said the timeframe of the evacuation was dependent on permission being granted by the Chinese government, something that would take longer if a military rather than a Qantas aircraft was used.

“At the moment we’re doing the best we can to get that ironed out … it’s awfully complex,” Peters said.

Peters said it was not clear yet whether New Zealand consular staff would be evacuated from China but all options were being looked at and the situation on the ground was “of major concern”.

“We don’t want to overact until we know what we’re reacting too, and against,” he said.

The World Health Organization (WHO) has warned that the whole world must be on alert to deal with the spread of coronavirus, and urged countries to prepare.

WHO will reconvene its expert committee on Thursday to decide whether to declare the Wuhan coronavirus outbreak a public health emergency of international concern.

Total deaths now stand at 170, all in China, with 7,183 confirmed cases.

Just 68 cases have been confirmed outside China, in 15 countries, but in three countries, Germany, Vietnam and Japan, there is evidence of human-to-human transmission, raising fears over the spread of the disease.

There have been no cases of the virus detected in New Zealand, but flights arriving from China are being met by public health officials in Auckland and Christchurch.