Chinese-Australian parents urge Government to quarantine school students 
 Concerned members of Sydney's Chinese community are begging the NSW Government to bar students who may have been infected with coronavirus from returning to classes.

Two online petitions asking the Government to quarantine pupils who visited China during the school holidays have gathered thousands of signatures and are being circulated on social media platform WeChat.

Some private schools in Sydney have already contacted parents saying children who had been to China would need doctor's certificates before returning to classes.

Coronavirus has already killed dozens of people, and four of Australia's five confirmed cases are in NSW.

NSW Health today said it was investigating eight possible coronavirus cases.

The main petition already has more than 17,000 signatures, and calls for students to be isolated at home for two weeks prior to returning to school.

"The fact that a vast amount of Chinese residents are returning to Australia prior to school start next week is highly concerning to all the children and staff amongst all Australian schools," the blurb on the Change.org petition read.

The State Government confirmed students who have been in contact with a person confirmed as having coronavirus must not attend school or childcare for 14 days after the last contact with the infected person.

It said students who had travelled to Hubei Province, including Wuhan, during the school holidays could return to school, but that they should be monitored for symptoms.

Ronnie Wang, from Sydney-based employment network Asian Women at Work, said she had been inundated with phone calls and social media posts from worried families.

"There is a lot of information on WeChat because parents are very, very concerned, especially [about] those who are contagious but not showing symptoms," she said.

On Monday, three private schools — The Scots College, Kambala School and Newington College — contacted parents and asked them to make sure their children had been cleared by a doctor before returning to school if they had been to China.

Scots College said it also cancelled the Chinese New Year celebrations scheduled for January 31 "as a precautionary measure".

"For public schools they are not telling students to stay home," Ms Wang said.

"Many people feel the response from the Federal and NSW Government has been too weak, and more measures are need to stop the spread of the virus."

Ms Wang said parts of the Chinese community in Sydney even want all airline passengers arriving from China isolated for a fortnight.

In Melbourne, the Xin Jin Shan Chinese Language and Culture School postponed the start of the school year due to concerns about the outbreak.

The NSW Department of Education's Secretary Mark Scott said his office was taking a sensible approach.

"We are encouraging people to go to school if they can follow the guidelines, and if there is any respiratory illness linked to this or anything else, we encourage children to stay at home and seek medical advice," he said.