These are all the companies who have shut down operations in China over the deadly Wuhan coronavirus outbreak 
 Businesses in Wuhan, China, are temporarily suspending operations and moving out employees in an attempt to limit the spread of a deadly coronavirus that has so far killed 80 and infected more than 2,800.

The city of Wuhan, where the virus first broke out, is one of China's biggest industrial hubs. Several large Chinese and foreign corporations operate there.

Household names including PepsiCo, German conglomerate Siemens, and French automaker Peugeot Citroen all have bases in Wuhan and the wider Hubei province.

The spread of the virus is predicted to have a damaging effect on the economy, and many businesses in the area have suspended operations in an attempt to contain the virus.

Here are businesses who have been affected so far:

The outbreak and quarantines came in the run-up to the Lunar New Year holidays, one of the busiest times for shopping, travel, and eating out in China.

As a result, the travel, hotel, and restaurant industries are most likely to be impacted by the virus, The Hollywood Reporter said, citing forecasters.

At least seven hotel companies including The Peninsula Hotels, Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts, Hilton, and Marriott International announced they will waive fees for changes or cancellation during the outbreak, the South China Morning Post (SCMP) reported.

Didi, the Chinese ride-sharing service, also said it would halt services in Wuhan on at noon on Friday — the day before the first day of the Lunar New Year — at the request of local authorities, the SCMP said.

Fast-food chains operating in Wuhan and its surrounding area, including McDonald's, Pizza Hut, and KFC, are also among those affected.

McDonald's suspended operations in five Chinese cities — Wuhan, Ezhou, Huanggang, Qianjiang, and Xiantao — it told Business Insider's Mary Hanbury last week.

"We will decide on the time of resuming business in accordance with the development of the epidemic," the company said in its statement.

It will also monitor the temperature of all employees and send home all those who show symptoms of the virus, such as cold or fever, McDonald's said.

KFC and Pizza Hut stores in Wuhan also shut down temporarily in response to the outbreak, Reuters reported.

Retailers were also affected, with H&M closing down a total of 13 stores in the region, according to The Japan Times.

Swedish furniture store Ikea also temporarily closed its store, which employs 500 people, last Thursday over concerns for workers' and customers' health, the SCMP reported.

Tourism and retail stocks that rely on Chinese demand — including Burberry, cruise giant Carnival, and British Airways owner International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG) — also dropped sharply on Monday.