Coronavirus poses little threat in Triad, specialist says 
 Jan. 27--TRIAD -- The risk of contracting the potentially deadly coronavirus here in the Triad is almost nonexistent, according to a local infectious disease expert.

"The threat is almost zero, unless you've traveled to central China," said Dr. Chris Ohl, infectious disease specialist at Wake Forest Baptist Health in Winston-Salem. "...The risk here in North Carolina is minuscule. It's not zero, because there are people who travel to central China from North Carolina, but it's really a very minimal risk right now."

As of noon Monday, five cases of the respiratory virus have been confirmed in the United States -- none of them in North Carolina or even the Southeast -- according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The closest confirmed case involved a patient in Chicago.

"Of those five cases, there have been no secondary cases," Ohl said. "Those people were all international travelers -- they either traveled to China or live there. The full incubation period hasn't played out yet, but so far, so good. And no health-care workers have gotten the coronavirus, so that's good, too."

More than 2,700 cases of the virus have been confirmed in mainland China, where the outbreak began, and the worldwide death toll stands at 82. Travel restrictions have been implemented in China in an attempt to contain the spread of the virus, and the CDC has advised against traveling to central China for the time being, according to Ohl.

"No one's getting out of China legally, but it's not an easy thing to quarantine 50 million people," he said. "There are going to be some people who figure out a way to get around it. But even if they come here, they're going to be shunted to one of five quarantine airports here in the U.S., and they'll be assessed before they're allowed into the country."

Coronavirus symptoms typically resemble influenza symptoms such as a fever, sore throat, cold symptoms, and they can progress to shortness of breath and even pneumonia. Some patients have to be placed on a ventilator to help them breathe, Ohl said.

"Fortunately, this coronavirus isn't as severe, from what we know so far," he said. "The fatality rate seems to be lower, and mortality occurs particularly in people who are older or who have underlying diseases. So in that aspect, it's a little bit like influenza."

The virus is contagious, but not alarmingly so, Ohl said.

"From the data I saw last week, every one person with the coronavirus infects one to three other people," he said. "So it's not as contagious as chickenpox or the measles, but it's probably more contagious than some of the common colds we get."

Predictably, the coronavirus outbreak has caused alarm in the United States, Ohl said, but the alarm is not necessary.

"Anecdotally, yeah, I think there have been a lot of phone calls to doctors' offices," he said. "You know, 'I ate Chinese food last night, and now I have a stuffy nose this morning -- could I have the coronavirus?' That kind of thing. But unless you've traveled to central China in the last 14 days, if you have symptoms of a cold or the flu, then you have a cold or the flu."

jtomlin@hpenews.com -- 336-888-3579

___

(c)2020 The High Point Enterprise (High Point, N.C.)

Visit The High Point Enterprise (High Point, N.C.) at www.hpenews.com

Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.