China battles coronavirus outbreak: All the latest updates 
 China and countries around the world are scrambling to contain the spread of a new coronavirus that has killed at least 81 people and infected more than 2,700.

Germany has reported its first case of the virus, as the United States and Canada upgraded travel warnings to advise their citizens to avoid all non-essential travel to China.

More than 56 million people in almost 20 Chinese cities - including Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province where the virus originated - have been prevented from travelling in an attempt to curb the spread of the virus during the Lunar New Year or Spring Festival, traditionally China's busiest travel season. 

More:




The Director General of the World Health Organization (WHO) is currently in China.

The agency has acknowledged the respiratory illness is an emergency in China, but said last week it was too early to declare the outbreak a public health emergency of international concern. It has described the global risk from the virus as high. 












Coronavirus death toll jumps to 81 (2:26)









Here are the latest updates:

Tuesday, January 28

Germany reports first case of coronavirus

Germany has reported its first case of the deadly coronavirus - in the southern region of Bavaria, the Bavarian health ministry said on Monday.
 
"A man in the Starnberg region has been infected with the new coronavirus," a spokesman for the ministry said, adding that he is under surveillance in an isolation ward. 

The ministry gave no further details on how the patient came to be infected but said he was in a "medically good state".

US tells citizens to avoid all non-essential travel to China, as it prepares evacuation

The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on Monday raised its advice to US travellers to avoid all non-essential travel to China, as a result of the coronavirus.

The CDC alert is now at the highest level - Warning.

It advised anyone who did have to travel to the country to avoid sick people, keep away from food markets and animals, and to wash their hands thoroughly and frequently. Older people and those with underlying health issues were more at risk, it added. 



China's Beijing suspends most bus services to neighbouring Hebei

China's Beijing Public Transport Group said it will suspend the majority of bus services into neighbouring Hebei province from Tuesday to contain the spread of coronavirus, according to a statement on its official Weibo account.

China's Tangshan city suspends public transit to prevent spread of coronavirus

Tangshan, China's largest steelmaking city in northern Hebei province, announced on Tuesday morning that it was suspending all public transport within the city in an effort to prevent the further spread of the new coronavirus.

South Korea 'all out' to contain virus outbreak

South Korea on Tuesday said it was going "all out" to contain the outbreak of the spreading coronavirus as it confirmed its fourth case of the infection.

"The government will be all out to protect citizens and minimise its impact on the economy," Finance Minister Hong Nam-ki said in a policy meeting in Seoul.

Hong said the government will fund efforts to contain the virus using the emergency fund from the existing budget, including 20.8 billion won ($17.8 million) set aside for anti-epidemic measures.




Canada says to "avoid all travel" to Hubei Province, citing travel restrictions

Canada has told its citizens to "avoid all travel" to China's Hubei province, as a second person - the wife of the man who was first found to have the coronavirus - was diagnosed with the infection.

Read updates from Monday, January 27 here.


    
      
            SOURCE:
            Al Jazeera and news agencies