Baylor student tests negative for coronavirus 
 A Baylor University student suspected of coming down with the deadly coronavirus raging in a city in China does not have the pneumonia-like infection.



                                                                	The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention informed the Waco university Monday the student’s viral samples tested negative for the virus, which has now killed 81 Chinese people and sickened nearly 3,000, the vast majority in China. The Baylor student had developed mild flu-like symptoms after returning to campus.



                                                                	
                                                                	“This is very good news and we are deeply grateful to our local and university healthcare providers and officials and the Waco-McLennan County Public Health District for their approach to this case, their proactive guidance and expertise and the compassionate care extended to our student while we awaited the CDC results,” said Dr. Sharon Stern, medical director for Baylor University’s health services division.



                                                                	The news came a day after the CDC cleared a Texas AM student of having the virus. That student, who also developed mild symptoms after returning from China, went to an emergency room out of concern Wednesday evening and health officials announced they were investigating it Thursday. The Baylor student’s suspected case was announced Friday.



                                                                	On HoustonChronicle.com: Texas AM student tests negative for coronavirus



                                                                	Two other people in the state suspected of having the disease have also tested negative, the Texas health department said Monday. Officials did not provide locations for those patients.



                                                                	Coronaviruses are a group of viruses that may produce respiratory illnesses in some people, according to the CDC. Strains that occur in animals, such as 2002-2003’s SARS virus and 2012’s MERS virus, may evolve and infect humans and can be fatal.



                                                                	
                                                                	More than 100 people in the U.S. have or are being evaluated for the virus and five, all of whom had recently traveled to China, have tested positive. The outbreak originated in the Chinese city of Wuhan, where most of the deaths have occurred. The first death in Beijing was announced Monday.



                                                                	There have no deaths from the virus outside China, but cases have been confirmed in 15 other countries, most in Asia but also in Australia, Europe and North America.



                                                                	
                  todd.ackerman@chron.com