Minister rebukes school coronavirus advice 
 Australia's education minister has chastised schools forcing healthy students returning from China to stay away.
Some private schools are isolating pupils who have recently visited China or are telling them to stay home for at least a fortnight, in an attempt to stop the spread of the deadly coronavirus.
"Individual schools make their own decisions but the advice from the Australian government is to follow our medical advice," federal Education Minister Dan Tehan told ABC radio on Tuesday.
"I would say to all schools that they should be following the advice of the health department, that is the clear position of the Australian government.
"Obviously in the end they will have to answer to their parents, but also they will have to answer to state and territory governments, who have responsibility for schools."
The federal government's advice is that if students have returned home from China but are healthy, it is reasonable for them to attend school.
If they have been in contact with somebody with coronavirus, they should not attend school for up to 14 days.
Mr Tehan and his department secretary have spoken to their state and territory counterparts to ensure their advice is heeded.
Several boarding schools have either isolated students from mainland China in separate living quarters, or have told parents the pupils will be segregated if they do not stay away for at least a fortnight.
The coronavirus outbreak also poses a significant threat to Australian universities, both in relation to the potential spread of the virus and in economic terms.
There are roughly 164,000 Chinese students who attend university in Australia, pumping billions of dollars into the national economy.
Mr Tehan said university officials were working with students in China who are unable to travel, so that they might be able to take online courses.
A 21-year-old Sydney university student became the country's fifth person to be diagnosed after flying back from the virus's epicentre in Wuhan, China.
The UNSW student displayed no symptoms upon landing in Sydney last Thursday but began exhibiting flu-like symptoms 24 hours later.