Photos show city of 11 million deserted 
 Eerie photos have emerged of the deserted streets of Wuhan after the city was put into lockdown on Thursday. 
The city, home to 11 million people in the province of Hubei, has been confirmed by scientists as the epicentre of the deadly coronavirus outbreak, which has now claimed 81 lives and infected at least 2800 people around the world.
While five million people fled the city in fear of becoming infected, nine million are left, according to the city’s mayor.
Roads are empty, prices of fresh groceries are surging, and inhabitants are wondering how long they need to stay in their apartments.
Increasingly drastic anti-disease efforts began on January 22 when plane, train and bus links to Wuhan were suspended. Later, most private cars were banned from the roads.
That lockdown has expanded to 17 cities and more than 50 million people in the most far-reaching disease-control measures ever imposed.
RELATED: Tests confirm source of deadly virus
In Shanghai, officials have stopped all businesses apart from medical firms, supermarkets and utilities from reopening until February 10.
While Chinese health officials warned that the virus’s capacity to spread was increasing, Health Minister Ma Xiaowei said travel restrictions and other strict measures should bring results “at the lowest cost and fastest speed”.
China’s National Health Commission said anyone travelling from Wuhan was now required to register with community health stations and quarantine themselves at home for 14 days – the virus’ maximum incubation period.
Work has begun to build a 1000-bed hospital in a matter of days on the outskirts of Wuhan, and 1000 additional medical staff have been deployed to the city. On Saturday it was announced that a second new hospital was to be built to treat affected patients.
Experts have questioned whether the quarantine measures are helpful, as the restrictions were announced only hours before they were introduced – potentially encouraging cases to scatter across the country.
RELATED: Distressing footage of doctors screaming
Some fear the severity of the restrictions also risks creating anger towards health officials at a time when the public’s co-operation is desperately needed.
Mayor Zhou Xianwang has acknowledged criticism over his handling of the crisis, telling the Chinese state broadcaster CCTV, “We haven’t disclosed information in a timely manner and also did not use effective information to improve our work.”
 – with AP