Face masks selling fast in South Canterbury 
 Empty racks where face masks would usually be stocked at Placemakers Timaru.

South Canterbury retailers have started selling out of face masks following the outbreak of the coronavirus in Wuhan, China, last week.

No cases have been reported in New Zealand, but those concerned about a possible outbreak here have been fast to act - buying up to 20 masks at a a time from retail store across the region. Placemakers Timaru and Twizel joint venture owner/operator Brendan Leary said his customers were not prepared to take any chances with the store selling about 1000 masks since last week. "We're sold out in both Placemakers Timaru and Twizel and have have ordered more stock, but suppliers have also run out. READ MORE:

 * 'Worst is yet to come': China struggles to cope with coronavirus, death toll jumps to 80

 * China arrivals to be checked by health staff amid coronavirus outbreak

 * Coronavirus: As illness spreads, anxiety rises in China and overseas

Leary said signs advising they had sold out of masks had been placed at entrances to both stores.

"In the last couple of days sales have exploded since media reports have become more common."

Mitre 10 Mega Timaru store manager Dave Ferguson said face masks had been "flying off the stalls" since the weekend.

"We're getting calls from as far afield as Christchurch for them. Some people are buying bags of 20," Ferguson said.

"It's really ramped up over the last day or so. Demand is huge."

Roberts Pharmacy co-owner Brent Roberts said they had sold about 200 face masks since the weekend and had restricted sales to five per person before selling out. They had also sold out of hand sanitiser, he said.

"We're trying to get more stock, but there appears to be a shortage everywhere," Roberts said.

 

 Highfield Pharmacy pharmacist and owner Anna Bridson said tdemand for face masks had picked up in the past few days, and they were now restricting sales.

"What we had disappeared instantly and then it has taken days to get more stock," Bridson said.

"We did get more stock this morning but we have to sell it bit by bit."

Bridson said it would be difficult to order more stock.

"Maybe we were not as prepared as we should have been," she said.

Iris Bae, of Dee St Pharmacy, said they had sold five boxes of ear loop face masks each day over the past two days.

"Lots of tourists, particularly Chinese tourists, drop on by to our pharmacy on the way to Christchurch to pick them up," Bae said.

"We've only got a limited amount and we can't keep up with the demand," she said.

A spokesperson at The ToolShed Timaru said they had not noticed an change in demand and still had a small number of face masks for sale. A spokesperson at Repco Timaru said they also had a small number of face masks available for purchase.