What you need to know about coronavirus 
 Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield says there is a high likelihood of NZ getting a case of the coronavirus.

The new coronavirus, called 2019-nCoV, was first identified in Wuhan, China.

At least 106 people have died in the outbreak, and more than 4400 people have been infected in more than a dozen countries.

New Zealand health authorities say it is highly likely the virus will spread here, but the chances of a sustained outbreak are low.

What are the symptoms?

Symptoms of the coronavirus are similar to other illnesses such as influenza and include fever, coughing and difficulty breathing. Difficulty breathing is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. A study in medical journal The Lancet of 41 patients admitted to hospital with the virus in Wuhan found all the patients had pneumonia, 13 patients were bad enough to be admitted to intensive care, and six people died.

What advice is being given to the general public?

Travellers who become sick within a month of their arrival in New Zealand should seek medical advice and contact Healthline on 0800 611 116 or a doctor. They should mention any recent travel to Wuhan or contact with someone with severe acute respiratory illness who has been in Wuhan.

As with all respiratory illnesses, people can take steps to reduce their risk of infection. This includes regularly washing hands, covering your mouth and nose when you sneeze, staying home if you are sick and avoiding close contact with anyone with cold or flu-like symptoms.

How dangerous is it?

At a press briefing on Monday, Ministry of Health director-general Dr Ashley Bloomfield said the latest figures from China suggested the fatality rate was about 3 per cent, and "current data" suggested people who had the virus might infect two to three other people. By way of comparison, Bloomfield said someone with measles might be expected to infect 14 other people.

Bloomfield said at the briefing there was "limited evidence around the effectiveness" of face masks protecting against contracting the coronavirus, but "people should wear masks if they feel that that is protecting them". He also said if someone was "harbouring symptoms of any illness", including the common cold and influenza, it was "appropriate" to wear a face mask.

Should you send your children to preschool and school?

If your child is unwell they should not be at their early learning centre or school, according to the latest advice from the Ministry of Education. The ministry said parents should "err on the side of caution". If children had recently travelled to China or been in contact with someone confirmed with the virus, then parents should consider keeping them away for 14 days.