Calls to deploy RAAF to evacuate 400 Australians from China 
 Health Minister Greg Hunt on Tuesday said Senator Payne and her department were making "significant progress", working with Chinese authorities and countries including the United States and United Kingdom.
Loading
"The Foreign Minister is working to ensure that we have a pathway home for each and every one of those Australians," Mr Hunt told reporters in Melbourne. "The timing is something that will be worked on with the Chinese authorities and this is part of a global challenge."
He said the government was "confident that, given time, we will get all of our Australians back and we are also working in the meantime to make sure they have the best care, the best support, on the ground".
About 400 Australian citizens, including 100 young people, have been registered for federal government help to get out of Hubei.

"They are being cross-checked to ensure there is no double-counting because sometimes you will have, understandably, multiple family members report the same person," Mr Hunt said.
The US will evacuate some consular staff from the city at the centre of the outbreak, Wuhan, on a charter flight on Tuesday, and Japan and France plan to evacuate citizens in the coming days. Thailand is working to bring back its nationals and Germany is also considering flying home its citizens.
Mr Hunt said the plight of Australians trapped in China was "one of the number one issues" at an urgent national security meeting called by Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Monday to deal with the coronavirus.
"We have perhaps the world's most prepared system as identified by the World Health Organisation [WHO] in their most recent national assessment two years ago, and what the Prime Minister wanted to do was to make sure that all of the elements of that are in place, being activated and underway," he told Sky News on Tuesday.

"And that's about making sure that our tracing, our treatment, our testing, our identification and our care of patients – not just within Australia but our care and support for people overseas in China – is underway and every possible step that can be taken is being taken."
Loading
Senator Patrick also questioned chief medical officer Brendan Murphy's dismissal of official Chinese reports the coronavirus might be transmitted during the incubation period and before symptoms begin, saying a "precautionary" approach should taken.
"We should assume that it's confirmed until evidence to the contrary," Senator Patrick said. Professor Murphy said on Monday there was "insufficient evidence" the virus could spread without symptoms.
Senator Patrick also called for temperature screening at airports and for every passenger who had travelled to China to be questioned about whether they had visited coronavirus-affected areas.

Asked why direct flights from Wuhan to Sydney were not stopped before China halted outbound travel on January 25, Mr Hunt said the government had followed WHO advice.
Loading
"Australia declared this to be a disease with pandemic potential and so we have followed the expert advice at every step," he said. "We have biosecurity officials boarding all planes from China, providing information, also speaking with passengers, looking for signs, looking for symptoms and what we are doing is moving at the fastest possible pace."
Across China, 106 people had died from the coronavirus and more than 4500 were confirmed as infected by Tuesday afternoon. Cases of the coronavirus have also been reported in Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, South Korea, Thailand, Nepal, Vietnam, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, the US and France. Five cases have been confirmed in Australia.
With wires

Dana is health and industrial relations reporter for The Sydney Morning Herald and The Age.