Coronavirus: Auckland school screening students' temperatures amid outbreak fears 
 Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield says there is a high likelihood of NZ getting a case of the coronavirus.

A private school will take the temperatures of certain students and staff each day as fears over the deadly coronavirus outbreak grow.

On Monday, the Ministry of Education advised all principals to exclude students who had recently been to China, or were in close contact with someone who had been, for two weeks due to "high risk of exposure" to the pneumonia-like virus.

More than 80 people have died from the novel coronavirus in China, with almost 3000 people confirmed ill. There have been dozens of cases elsewhere, including four confirmed cases in Australia.

Schools were told to "err on the side of caution" as students return after Director-General of Health Ashley Bloomfield announced there was a high likelihood of the virus arriving in New Zealand.

At Auckland's ACG College Parnell, where school started on Tuesday, any students or staff who visited China's Hubei province in December and January had been told to stay home.

The 1200-student school was also compiling a register of all students and staff who were recently in China, as well as all international students, an email sent to parents on Monday night said.

All affected students and staff would have their temperature screened on arrival at school "each day until further notice".

Anyone who showed flu-like symptoms or a raised temperature would be immediately sent to the doctor, the email, seen by Stuff, said.

ACG College was not the only school heeding the ministry's warning.

Parents of students at Glendowie College, which has a roll of 1250, and Western Springs College, which has a roll of 1500, were told students who had been to China needed to "voluntarily stay away" for 14 days.

Auckland Normal Intermediate School, which has about 700 students, contacted parents asking for a record of all families who recently travelled to China or were due to travel in the next few weeks.

Matua Ngaru School in Huapai was also asking affected staff and students to stay away.

On Facebook, Principal Diana Wilkes said if a student attended school while showing symptoms, they would be sent home "immediately".

Wilkes said healthy children could wear medical masks to school, but those were "not to be used as a substitute to staying home" if unwell, she said.

Public health experts were stationed at international airports to screen the 2000 people who arrive in New Zealand from China each day.

No cases of novel coronavirus have been confirmed in New Zealand so far.

The coronavirus is a family of viruses, including the common cold, SARS and MERS, which cause respiratory illness.