Mumbai man quarantined after China trip for suspected novel coronavirus | Mumbai News - Times of India 
 A central team at the isolation facility at Kasturba on Monday

MUMBAI: Three more individuals returning from China, including a 36-year-old Tardeo man and two Pune residents, have been quarantined for the suspected novel coronavirus (nCov), taking the count of quarantined patients in the state to six. With the virus continuing to spread globally, the state decided to approach private hospitals to ready their isolation wards as backup, besides starting a toll-free number (104) to disseminate information on the disease.The latest to be isolated at Kasturba Hospital, Chinchpokli, that houses the city’s only quarantine facility, was the Tardeo resident, who complained of cough with sputum for five days and had an episode of fever on Sunday. BMC officials said the individual stayed in Shanghai (January 3-7) and then in the Chinese city Guangzhou (January 7-11), before returning to Mumbai on January 11 via Hong Kong. His samples have been sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. Three others, including a 31-year-old Nalasopara woman, a 36-year-old man from Kalyan and a 65-year-old Britisher, remain quarantined at Kasturba as a hospital discharge policy for isolated patients was drawn up on Monday.Quarantined patients will now be allowed to go home only after they have tested negative in two consecutive tests carried out at a four-day interval. At the meeting of Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention, Control, Technical Committee (MCDPCTC) attended by officials from public health department, BMC and NIV experts, it was decided to follow up suspected patients, including those who test negative, till 28 days. “We will follow them over the phone or they can self-report,” said Dr Archana Patil, additional director, health services.State official said 15 of the 3,756 passengers screened at Mumbai international airport are under observation. “People under observation are asymptomatic now,” Dr Patil said. BMC executive health officer Dr Padmaja Keskar said the Tardeo patient was stable and was given symptomatic treatment. “He doesn’t have a history of travel to any fish market or of meeting anyone with similar illness in China,” he said.Former public health minister Dr Deepak Sawant, who was at the MCDPCTC meet, said the toll-free number will be activated in a day or two. Dr Subhash Salunkhe of MCDPCTC said those who arrived in Mumbai from China from January 1 will be monitored for double the incubation period for coronavirus, which is 14-15 days.