Coronavirus has killed 106 and infected 4,193 in China, state newspaper says 
 Disinfection workers wearing masks and spray anti-septic solution at the Incheon International Airport on January 27, 2020 in Incheon, South Korea.

The coronavirus outbreak has killed 106 people and infected 4,193 people in China, state-run newspaper the People's Daily reported on Tuesday.

The state newspaper also said that 58 people had recovered from the disease.

Earlier, China's Hubei province said on Tuesday that 100 people had died from a coronavirus outbreak as of Jan. 27, while the number of confirmed cases in the province rose to 2,714.

The majority of the reported cases are in mainland China, where local authorities have quarantined several major cities and canceled Lunar New Year's events in Beijing and elsewhere.

The U.S. Department of State on Monday raised its travel advisory for China from Level 2 to Level 3 asking Americans to "reconsider travel to China due to the novel coronavirus." They added that some areas have "added risk."

President Donald Trump addressed the matter in a tweet Monday, saying the U.S. is "in very close communication with China concerning the virus."

Multiple cases of the virus have been confirmed in Hong Kong, Macao, Taipei, Thailand, Vietnam, South Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Japan, Australia, France and the United States.

On Monday, local authorities in Germany confirmed the country's first case. Nepal has confirmed one case. Cambodia confirmed its first case on Monday, according to Reuters, citing Health Minister Mam Bunheng. Sri Lanka also confirmed its first case on Monday, Reuters reports.

Several companies, including Walt Disney with its Shanghai Disney, are suspending operations until further notice during the normally festive weeklong Lunar New Year holiday to prevent the outbreak from spreading. Starbucks and McDonald's also closed stores in Hubei province.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed Sunday a fifth U.S. case of the coronavirus — a patient in Maricopa County, Arizona, who recently traveled to Wuhan, China, the epicenter of the disease's outbreak and where the majority of cases have been reported.