NSW coronavirus situation 'evolving' 
 NSW Health Minister Brad Hazzard says six new potential virus cases are being assessed in NSW

A family of four and six others who were being tested for coronavirus in NSW have been cleared but six new cases are now under investigation.

NSW Health Minister Brad Hazzard on Tuesday morning said 10 people under investigation on Monday had been cleared but six new potential cases were now being assessed.

"This will be, for some to come, an evolving situation," Mr Hazzard told reporters.

There have been four confirmed cases of the potentially deadly coronavirus in NSW.

A 21-year-old UNSW student became the fourth case in NSW and fifth in Australia after she tested positive on Monday.

The woman flew into Sydney Airport on Thursday on the last Australian-bound direct flight out of the Chinese city of Wuhan - the epicentre of the outbreak.

The student and three men who previously tested positive are being treated at Sydney's Westmead Hospital.

All four people had either travelled to Wuhan or had contact with someone diagnosed with coronavirus in China.

A Melbourne man in his 50s has also been diagnosed and is being treated at the Monash Medical Centre.

NSW Health says most children are OK to return to school unless they are unwell or have had contact with a person diagnosed with coronavirus.

"Unless a child is showing signs of illness or there has been an exposure to the virus, then the children are safe to go to school," Mr Hazzard said.

Students who have travelled to the Chinese province of Hubei during the school holidays can return to school but should be carefully monitored for symptoms of coronavirus infection, NSW Health said.

Symptoms of the virus include fever, cough, sore throat and shortness of breath.

Some NSW private schools have advised students who have travelled to China or been in contact with anyone who has been in China in the past fortnight to stay home.

Kambala girls' school in Sydney's eastern suburbs on Monday wrote to parents advising that students in such circumstances should stay home for 14 days.

"We still request a medical clearance on return to the school but now ask for you to remain at home during the potential incubation period," principal Shane Hogan said in an email.

A change.org petition which has garnered more than 17,000 signatures is calling for the NSW education department to tell all students who have recently returned from China to isolate themselves and stay home for two weeks.