Govt Prepares to Airlift Indians from China 
 New Delhi: The Centre on Monday asked the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to prepare for evacuating Indians from China at short notice and ordered increased vigil and screening on its border with Nepal after a confirmed case of coronavirus infection was reported in the neighbouring country. About 700 Indian students are believed to be studying in Wuhan and its surrounding areas, which are at the heart of the viral outbreak, said officials. While most of them had left for home during Chinese New Year holidays, 250-300 were said to be still in and around the city. The MEA, officials said, will be making a request to Chinese authorities for possible evacuation of Indian nationals from Wuhan. The Indian embassy in Beijing also put out posts on social media platform Twitter asking Indian nationals stuck in Wuhan and its surrounding areas to provide their locations. Air India, on the other hand, was asked to keep an aircraft ready to evacuate Indians from China at short notice. Airline officials said they were in touch with the Directorate General of Civil Aviation for early approvals. The regulator too is on alert to deal with the necessary paperwork at any hour of the day. 73684242 Air India Awaits Approval “There is a Boeing 747 aircraft parked in Mumbai and ready to leave for China as and when the government decides,” said a senior Air India official. The aircraft was first scheduled to leave for China at 5 am on Monday but could not leave as the necessary clearances were awaited from China. Meanwhile, Beijing briefed a group of foreign diplomats, including Indian officials, on Monday about the containment measures being taken to stop the spread of the virus and the situation of foreigners in Hubei and Wuhan. Chinese authorities were reported to have prevented anyone from leaving Wuhan, a city of 11 million people, to prevent the virus from spreading further. The coronavirus, which had killed 81 people in China and affected over 2,500 people by Monday evening, reportedly originated from Wuhan, a major transportation hub. The Centre has also asked five border states – Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Uttarakhand, West Bengal and Sikkim, which share a porous, over 1,750 km long border with Nepal – to disseminate alerts over public address systems at border check posts. According to officials, the major challenge is to educate people that even if they do not show symptoms, they could still be its carriers. The health ministry has asked the states to hold gram sabhas in border villages to educate people thoroughly about the virus, its causes and symptoms. As Nepal confirmed a case, the central ministries sprang into action. Health minister Dr Harshvardhan wrote to chief ministers of the five states asking them to personally monitor the screening and reporting of any suspected cases. Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba took an inter-ministerial review. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has been asked to share its guidelines and other relevant information with the state authorities in case any such case is reported. The shipping ministry has ordered entry screening at international ports having traffic from China. Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla spoke with the heads of police of the five states Monday and asked them to take the help of relevant agencies to coordinate with hotels for wider selfreporting by travellers from Nepal visiting religious and other tourist places in these states. Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), deployed on Indo-Nepal border, the medical personnel, and health officials have been asked to undertake awareness drives through distribution of leaflets and signage at the border check posts. According to health ministry statistics, 33,552 passengers travelling from China in 155 flights have been screened so far. On Monday, 4,359 passengers in 18 flights from China were screened and no case was found. A total of 17 samples have been sent for laboratory testing and 14 have been tested with no positive sample found. Instructions have also been issued to Bureau of Immigration, CISF and heath staff to screen passengers at 7 airports and risk communication and self-declaration at 12 other airports.