Travel insurers may not pay out for passengers caught by coronavirus 
 Travel insurers may not pay out for coronavirus-related claims made after the disease became public knowledge.

House of Travel commercial director Brent Thomas said acceptance of claims from people who need medical treatment for the virus or are caught out by travel restrictions may hinge on when insurance cover was taken out.

Based on last year's figures, Thomas estimated about 20,000 New Zealand residents would return from China in the three weeks around Chinese New Year, with the most of them having gone there to visit friends and family.

He said Kiwis stranded in Chinese cities locked down to prevent spread of the disease should still approach their insurer about claiming for accommodation costs or flight changes.

READ MORE:

 * Expanding checks for coronavirus would mean checking 23,000 passengers a day at airports

 * Coronavirus cases highly likely to arrive in NZ, health officials say as they seek extra quarantine powers

 * Human-to-human transmission confirmed in China coronavirus

 * China's new virus: What you need to know

 * Bumpy year ahead for tourism thanks to virus travel bans

"There will definitely be some people who will be caught up in these restrictions in some shape or form."

According to the Southern Cross Healthcare travel insurance website, customers who took out policies before 1pm on January 21 this year could submit claims for assessment if their travel was impacted by the virus.

After that time "we would consider that you would have been aware of the outbreak, which has been widely reported in global media.

"If your travel arrangements aren't affected by the outbreak, but you have changed your mind or are nervous about travelling, there is no provision to claim under your policy."

The New Zealand government Safetravel​ website advises against visiting China's Hubei​ province, and it warns travel restrictions could be extended to other areas of  China with little notice, preventing those already there from leaving.

The virus outbreak centred on China has so far infected 2800 people and killed at least 80 but the WHO has so far backed off declaring a global health emergency.

If it did so, Thomas said he understood insurers would refuse to provide travel cover from that date for claims arising from the virus.

"If it's declared a pandemic today, you couldn't buy insurance to cover your trip later in February because it's a known and a notified event."

Even if travellers affected by coronavirus​ were deemed eligible for insurance payments, Thomas said claims had to be reasonable.

"You can't stay a 3.5 star hotel and then move to a 5 star hotel. People have to realise it's not a limitless payment, it's about what's fair and reasonable.'