Some 400 register for China virus evac 
 The federal government is trying to deploy officials into the Chinese city of Wuhan where around 400 Australian citizens have registered for evacuation from the epicentre of the deadly coronavirus.
Australian embassy officials have met with Chinese authorities in Beijing about the options available for citizens in Wuhan.
"Right now, the Australian government, through our embassy, is looking to deploy, working with the Chinese government consular officials, into Hubei province, into Wuhan," prime minister Scott Morrison said on Tuesday.
Mr Morrison said the National Security Committee is meeting every few days to discuss the issue as more people arrive in Australia from China.
"We're working closely with the states and territories and we'll continue to do that to keep Australians safe," he said.
"But I would encourage Australians to go about their business, to understand and listen to the advice that's being received."
The death toll from the coronavirus outbreak has reached 100 in China, while confirmed cases in Hubei are now totalling 2,714
Five people are being treated in Australian hospitals for the virus after returning from visiting the region, but Australia's Chief Medical Officer Brendan Murphy said they were all in a stable condition.
"In fact, one of them is so well, they're only in hospital because of the quarantine requirements," he told reporters.
But authorities warn there's likely to be more cases and are working to trace any human contact the five confirmed patients have had, including people who were on the same flights from China to Australia.
In NSW, there are four confirmed cases including a 21-year-old University of NSW student who was diagnosed after flying back from the virus epicentre in Wuhan, China, and three men - aged 35, 43 and 53 - who are being treated at Sydney's Westmead Hospital.
The UNSW student displayed no symptoms upon landing in Sydney on China Eastern flight MU749 on Thursday but 24 hours later began exhibiting flu-like symptoms.
In Victoria, a man in his 50s is being treated at Monash Medical Centre while four of his family members are under home isolation.
Meanwhile, some private schools around the country are taking action to split off students who had recently visited China from their wider student body.
Ten students of Brisbane's Stuarthome School for girls are flying back from China and will spend two weeks in quarantine at the boarding school to manage any risk of them spreading the illness.
Pymble Ladies College and Kambala Anglican girls school in Sydney and Firbank Grammar School in Melbourne are telling parents to keep their children at home for at least two weeks if they have visited an affected area in China or had contact with anyone who's travelled from China in the past two weeks.
Other private schools have requested students who've visited the affected regions in China provide a doctor's certificate.
Federal and state governments have been advising parents of children who have returned from China they can go back to school if they are healthy.
It's now believed people who are infected could pass the illness to others the virus' incubation period, which ranges from one-to-14 days.
Doctors had believed patients were only contagious when they started showing symptoms.
The federal government is seeking urgent advice on this from the World Health Organisation.