South Canterbury District Health Board planning for coronavirus 
 South Canterbury District Health Board chief executive Nigel Trainor says the DHB have set up a project group and planning is underway for any confirmed coronavirus cases in South Canterbury.

The South Canterbury District Health Board has set up an emerging infectious diseases group to plan for the coronavirus threat.

The disease, which broke out in Wuhan, China, had reportedly claimed the lives of 100 people by Tuesday and infected thousands of others.

"The South Canterbury DHB have set up a project group and planning is underway for any confirmed coronavirus cases in South Canterbury," SCDHB chief executive Nigel Trainor said.

"The Community and Public Health Team and the South Canterbury DHB have also provided advice, information and posters to primary care and other health providers in the community."

READ MORE:

 * 'Worst is yet to come': China struggles to cope with coronavirus, death toll jumps to 80

 * China arrivals to be checked by health staff amid coronavirus outbreak

 * Coronavirus: As illness spreads, anxiety rises in China and overseas

Trainor said the SCDHB have provided staff information on coronavirus through the SCDHB intranet and through email alerts and advice is available through Medical Officer of Health and the Public Health team.

He said the public shouldn't be alarmed but they should be aware that the virus could circulate in New Zealand but they can be reassured that the SCDHB and community health providers are preparing in the event they have cases.

The advice is for people to follow the basic principles to reduce the general risk of acute respiratory infections. These are:

Travellers who become sick within a month of their arrival are encouraged to seek medical advice and contact Healthline at 0800 611 116 or a doctor and share their travel history. It is important to mention recent travel from Wuhan and any known contact with someone with severe acute respiratory illness who has been in Wuhan.