Coronavirus kills 106, infects over 2,700 in China, efforts on to evacuate Indians from virus-hit Wuhan 
 China continues to reel under the deadly Coronavirus (nCov) outbreak as the sharply rising death toll reached 106, causing global alarm. The virus, which has spread across the country, has infected over 2,700 people mostly in Wuhan and other Chinese cities.

At least one death was reported in China's capital city, Beijing on Monday. The Coronavirus victim in Beijing was identified as a 50-year-old man who had visited virus-hit Wuhan on January 8 and developed a fever after returning to Beijing seven days later. He died of respiratory failure.

Meanwhile, the Indian and the Chinese officials on Monday discussed plans to evacuate over 250 Indians from Wuhan city and Hubei province in view of the virus outbreak. Indian diplomats held a meeting with officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of China on Monday regarding the evacuation of the Indians from China, Indian embassy officials said.

In view of the Coronavirus outbreak which has sent an alarm across the world, a total of 3,756 air passengers returning from China have been screened in Mumbai in the last nine days. While five of these were found to have symptoms of Coronavirus (cough and fever), no confirmed case of the deadly disease has been found so far in Mumbai.

CORONAVIRUS: TOP DEVELOPMENTS FROM ACROSS THE WORLD

1. Chinese leader Li Keqiang on Monday visited Coronavirus-hit Wuhan as Beijing reported its first death from the disease that has killed 82 people and infected over 2,744 across the country. The sharply rising death toll has prompted two top officials, including Wuhan Mayor Zhou Xianwang, to offer their resignation.

2. From January 23, Wuhan and 17 other cities in China with a population of over 40 million have been virtually shut with the suspension of all public transport to prevent the virus from spreading to other parts of the country.

3. Beijing authorities have confirmed Beijing's first death from the deadly virus that has rapidly spread across the country. Beijing has halted long-distance bus service to and from the city.

4. The World Health Organisation (WHO), which had earlier said the global risk of the Coronavirus was "moderate", admitted an error in its assessment, saying it was "high". It said on Monday that the risk was "very high in China, high at the regional level and high at the global level".

5. Scientists in China are ramping up their efforts to develop a vaccine against Coronavirus. The country's health officials have said the virus's ability to spread is getting "stronger".

6. China's National Health Commission (NHC) said Coronavirus is "contagious" even in its incubation period, which lasts up to 14 days, and that the virus' ability to spread is getting stronger.

7. Over 33,552 passengers from 155 flights were screened till Sunday for novel Coronavirus infection in India, the Union health ministry said on Monday. No positive case was detected during the screening of the passengers returning from China. At least 4,359 passengers in 18 flights from China were screened on Monday for Coronavirus.

8. Over 100 people have been kept under observation in Kerala and Maharashtra following screening for possible exposure to the novel Coronavirus as the Prime Minister's Office on Saturday reviewed India's preparedness to deal with any situation amid mounting global concern over rising cases in China.

9. The Central government has stepped up vigil in areas bordering Nepal in view of a confirmed case of Coronavirus detected there. The Union health ministry on Monday said teams of healthcare professionals have been deployed in West Bengal's Panitanki and Uttarakhand's Jhulaghat and Jauljibi in Pithoragarh district, bordering Nepal.

10. The government on Monday decided to take steps for a possible evacuation of over 250 Indians from the Chinese city of Wuhan, the epicenter of the fast-spreading Coronavirus. Over 250 to 300 Indian students are reportedly stuck in Wuhan triggering concerns over their well-being.