Coronavirus a bigger short term risk than climate: Future Fund chairman Peter Costello 
 "It's [climate change] obviously something we look at. It's a significant thing to look at, it's not the only thing to look at."
Mr Costello, a former federal treasurer, is also the chairman of Nine Entertainment Co, which is the owner of The Sydney Morning Herald and The Age.
Increasing fears among economic policy leaders that climate change could cause the next financial crisis have flared up as Australian communities reel from the worst bushfire season on record.
Blackrock last week said it would cut its holdings in thermal coal producers, describing climate change as a "fundamental reshaping of finance." The International Monetary Fund and Bank for International Settlements have both warned in recent weeks that climate change poses serious risks to the global financial system.
Mr Costello said the bushfires will impact the Australian economy and "ultimately" share prices.

"But it would be hard to think in the short term where the damage will work out and we’ll have to think about that," Mr Costello said.
When asked if the Future Fund would divest from coal or fossil fuel assets, Mr Costello said: "We hold in accordance generally with the stock exchange".
Loading
On the sidelines of the briefing, Future Fund chief investment officer Raphael Arndt said there would be no change to the fund's climate change policy and pointed to the annual report published in September 2019 that outlined the "risks and opportunities" of climate change for longer term investors.
"While the exact impacts associated with climate change on financial markets are difficult to forecast, over longer timelines they are expected to be material especially for carbon intensive sectors of the economy," the report said.

This quarter, the Future Fund reached $168 billion in funds under management.
Mr Costello cautioned against complacency and said the stock market was being pumped up by "cheap money" as a result of low interest rates. He warned of the risk of asset price bubbles.
"This is not a normal world at the moment in terms of monetary policy. We’ve never seen interest rates like this before," Mr Costello said.
The Future Fund had taken "precautionary measures" to reduce the impact of a downturn in the market, such as reducing the fund's investment in the private market.
Future Fund chief executive David Neal said the fund had to be disciplined and it would be "easy to invest" in growth areas.

"We think it's really important to think about the other things that may happen, the scenarios that may occur."

Charlotte is a reporter for The Age.