X Games Postpones February Chongli Event, Citing Coronavirus Concerns 
 ZHANGJIAKOU, CHINA - FEBRUARY 26:  (CHINA OUT) The image shows aerial photo of Chongli Ski Resort on ... [+] February 26, 2015 in Zhangjiakou, Hebei province of China. China had applied for Hosting The 2022 Winter Olympic Games and the evaluate group of international Olympic Committee (IOC) would investigate some vital sports centers as the National Stadium, National Aquatics Center, the Olympic Village, Wukesong Culture  Sports Center as well as other sports centers.  (Photo by Visual China Group via Getty Images/Visual China Group via Getty Images)
Visual China Group via Getty ImagesESPN’s first-ever X Games winter event on Chinese soil, X Games Chongli, has been postponed until a later date, the organization announced Monday, due to continued coronavirus concerns. 
X Games Chongli was scheduled to be held February 21-23 at the Secret Garden ski resort in Chongli district within the city of Zhangjiakou. 
“Due to the ongoing coronavirus concerns, the X Games Chongli 2020 event will be postponed until a later date. The safety of our athletes, staff and spectators is our top priority, and we will continue to closely monitor the situation,” ESPN said in a statement. 
In recent years, X Games has expanded its international offerings considerably, planning to hold its fifth consecutive Norway event in 2020 and holding an inaugural Sydney event in 2018. 
In 2019, ESPN announced X Games and REnextop Entertainment, a Chinese action sports platform in China, agreed to a multiyear deal to collaboratively stage summer and winter events in the country. Following the successful launch of the inaugural X Games Shanghai event this past June, X Games aimed to add a winter event in China ahead of the 2022 Winter Olympics, hosted by Beijing. The city of Zhangjiakou, located 112 miles outside Beijing, will also serve as a host venue for ski and snowboard events at the 2022 Winter Games. 
China has been funneling immense government support into its ski and snowboard programs ahead of hosting the Olympics. According to Chinese media site CGTN, the budget for putting on the Beijing 2022 Games is $3.9 billion. However, that’s nothing compared to the $14 billion Pyeongchang poured into the 2018 Winter Olympics. 
On Tuesday, growing concern about the spread of coronavirus prompted the CDC to issue a Level 3 travel warning for nonessential travel to all of China, its highest level:

Zhangjiakou is located about 600 miles from Wuhan, the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak. According to the Washington Post, the virus’ death toll in China has reached 106 and is expected to climb. The illness has also been confirmed in cases in the United States, France, South Korea, Japan, Nepal, Thailand, Cambodia, Singapore, Vietnam, Taiwan, Canada, Sri Lanka and Germany.
X Games Chongli will include Big Air, Slopestyle and SuperPipe ski and snowboard events, as well as musical performances, art installations and a festival experience. No new date has been announced, but to maximize athlete participation, ESPN will need to work around other annual ski and snowboard competitions, including Dew Tour (February 6-9) and the Burton U.S. Open (February 24-29).