Coronavirus evacuation scam targets Chinese-Australians in Wuhan 
 Chinese-Australians in Wuhan have been warned not to fall for an online scam promising to help them flee the quarantined city which is the "ground zero" of the deadly coronavirus outbreak.

An online evacuation form targeting Chinese-Australians who wish to leave the city has been exposed as fake by the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.

The form requires people to fill in their personal details including their name, address, mobile number, specific geographical location, passport type and any extra needs during the supposed evacuation process.

A link to the registration form has been widely shared on WeChat, titled Chinese Australian in Wuhan, with the accompanying text:

"Please share this as much as you can, let Chinese-Australian citizens and permanent residents fill out this form as soon as possible. Although the epidemic situation is now under control, the situation remains grim. "All the information collected is only used for notification purposes of the epidemic situation and the evacuation for overseas Chinese Australians. "The information will be destroyed immediately after the epidemic situation is over and will not be retained."

China has reported 25 more deaths in the coronavirus outbreak as the toll rises to at least 106. The total number of confirmed cases has climbed to more than 4,200 worldwide.

The ABC has confirmed more than 100 Australian children are currently trapped in the area, including Melbourne father Yi Xu and his six-month-old daughter.

Many like him are desperate to go back home, he told the ABC.

"Everybody is trying their best to find ways to make that happen."

Speaking to Melbourne radio station 3AW yesterday, Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne said, "we don't have a definitive number on the number of Australians in Wuhan or in Hubei province, because it will include a significant number of dual nationals, some of who may not have travelled on Australian passports."

"If we are able to support Australians to travel, if they wish to leave, then we would like to do that."

Chinese authorities have implemented harsh new lockdown policies in the Wuhan area, including a ban on using private vehicles from the weekend.

China's Beijing Public Transport Group said it would suspend the majority of bus services into neighbouring Hebei province starting on Tuesday (local time) to contain the spread of coronavirus, according to a statement on its official Weibo account.