Coronavirus death toll hits 106 after 4,515 confirmed cases in China 
 The coronavirus death toll in China has risen to 106, after China said it had more than 4,500 confirmed cases of the deadly disease.

The number of total confirmed cases in China rose to 4,515 as of Jan. 27, the National Health Commission said in a statement, up from 2,835 reported a day earlier.

Germany has also declared its first confirmed case of the disease, while people returning to the UK from Wuhan in China where the virus broke out have been told to "self isolate" for two weeks - even if they have no symptoms.

Bavaria's health department said late on Monday that a man in the town of Starnberg, 30 kilometers (19 miles) southwest of Munich, has been confirmed as suffering from the virus.

The patient is in "good condition" and isolated under medical observation, Bavaria's health department said in a statement posted on its website. It did not disclose any details of the patient's age or nationality.

"People who have been in contact (with the patient) have been informed in detail about possible symptoms, hygiene measures and transmission channels," the health department said.

The death toll for virus, that broke out at the end of last year, and has stranded tens of millions during the big Lunar New Year holiday and rattled global markets.

Cases linked to people who travelled from Wuhan have been confirmed in a dozen countries, from Japan to the United States.

In a significant ramping up of the precautions in the UK around the virus, Health Secretary Matt Hancock warned officials could not be 100% certain that the virus is not spread by people who are not displaying symptoms.

The move means around 1,500 people who have returned from Wuhan since January 10 should isolate themselves for 14 days from the date of leaving China for the UK.

Ministers have said they are working to get Britons out of coronavirus-hit Hubei province in China, with Prime Minister Boris Johnson saying the Government is doing "everything we can".

Officials estimate that up to 200 UK citizens currently there will want to return to the UK.