Wesley College to isolate boarders, Tehan says private schools are overreacting 
 The directive is much stronger than the advice to parents of children at state schools. The state education department says only students who have contracted the virus or who have come into contact with a confirmed case need to stay away from school.
Federal Education Minister Dan Tehan said isolation was not necessary.
Travellers arrive at Melbourne Airport on Monday wearing masks. Credit:Simon Schluter
"Obviously individual schools make their own decisions but the advice from the Australian government is to follow our medical advice," he told ABC radio.
"We want to make sure that we're continuing to send a message that Australia is open for international students."

Private schools such as Scotch College and Firbank have also sent letters strongly recommending at-risk students delay their return to school by two weeks. Students start returning to school for the year from Wednesday.
Loading
Schools, universities and childcare centres across the country, particularly those with high numbers of Chinese-background or Chinese international students, are grappling with how to manage the potential spread of the disease without causing panic or disadvantaging students.
Many are repeating federal government advice that there is no cause for alarm and the risk to the Australian public remains relatively low, while urging those who suspect their families may be affected to seek urgent medical advice and stay away.
Victoria's Education Minister James Merlino said the state government had taken the advice of experts including the World Health Organisation and Australia’s chief medical officer, Professor Brendan Murphy.

"That advice is if you are well, if you are a staff or student, you should attend school," Mr Merlino said.
Loading
"The only two exceptions are in you have a confirmed case of coronavirus, or you’ve been in contact with a person who has contracted coronavirus."
Nesha Hutchinson, vice president of the Australian Childcare Alliance, said the alliance was not aware of students being infected or services closing down.
But Ms Hutchinson said the virus was particularly bad for children.

"Adults know what a tickle in the throat is or if they're going down with the flu, but children can’t communicate that," she said.
More to come.

Madeleine Heffernan edits The Age's Monday education page