Mayor offers to quit over response to coronavirus 
 Wuhan's mayor offered to resign yesterday after admitting that the city's response to the coronavirus outbreak, which has now killed more than 80 people and infected some 2,900, was too His offer came as cases were confirmed for the first time in Germany and Cambodia, while Canada confirmed its second case and South Korea its fourth. Zhou Xianwang, Wuhan's top government official, conceded in a candid interview with a state broadcaster that the initial management of the epidemic and the speed at which information was shared with the public was "not good enough". "We locked down the city to cut the spread of virus, but it's likely we'll leave a bad reputation in history," Mr Zhou told China Central Television, while wearing a blue surgical face mask. "As long as it helps contain the spread of virus, I'm willing to resign as a form of apology," he added. But Mr Zhou also appeared to blame the state's information management systems for a lack of transparency, arguing his hands were tied by party rules. "As a local government, after I got the information, I must ask for authorisation before I could disclose it. Many people didn't understand this at the time." It remains unclear what will happen to Mr Zhou. In the 2003 severe respiratory syndrome outbreak, Beijing's mayor made a pledge to resign and was promptly replaced. Mr Zhou's comments came as China's premier, Li Keqiang, visited Wuhan and promised to send 2,500 more medical staff to help with the response. The government also announced it has extended the week-long national holiday by two days and will invest 300 million yuan (€39m) for the construction of more hospitals in Wuhan, where the health system is overwhelmed. But the deadly virus has now spread far beyond its origins. Every Chinese province, bar Tibet, has confirmed infections, while 15 other countries, including the US, Australia and France, have discovered cases. Wuhan is one of more than a dozen quarantined cities in China, and the UK has joined the US, France, Japan, South Korea, and Australia in confirming it is working to make an "option available" to evacuate diplomats and citizens. Among those trapped are 100 Australian school children. In Hong Kong officials have started denying entry to travellers who visited Hubei province over the past two weeks. The director-general of the World Health Organization, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, arrived in Beijing as experts are still scrambling to find out more about where the coronavirus originated. One study in 'The Lancet', the medical journal, has raised questions about whether the virus originated in a wholesale market in Wuhan. Of the first 41 people confirmed to be infected, only 13 had links to the market, researchers found. (© Daily Telegraph, London)