South Canterbury District Health Board planning for coronavirus 
 South Canterbury District Health Board chief executive Nigel Trainor says the DHB have set up a project group and planning is underway for any confirmed coronavirus cases in South Canterbury.

The South Canterbury District Health Board has set up an emerging infectious diseases group to plan for the coronavirus threat.

The disease, which broke out in Wuhan, China, had reportedly claimed the lives of 100 people by Tuesday and infected thousands of others.

"The South Canterbury DHB have set up a project group and planning is underway for any confirmed coronavirus cases in South Canterbury," SCDHB chief executive Nigel Trainor said.

"The Community and Public Health Team and the South Canterbury DHB have also provided advice, information and posters to primary care and other health providers in the community."

READ MORE:

 * 'Worst is yet to come': China struggles to cope with coronavirus, death toll jumps to 80

 * China arrivals to be checked by health staff amid coronavirus outbreak

 * Coronavirus: As illness spreads, anxiety rises in China and overseas

Trainor said the SCDHB have provided staff information on coronavirus through the SCDHB intranet and through email alerts and advice is available through Medical Officer of Health and the Public Health team.

The public shouldn't be alarmed but they should be aware that the virus could circulate in New Zealand but they can be reassured that the SCDHB and community health providers are preparing in the event they have cases.

The advice is for people to follow the basic principles to reduce the general risk of acute respiratory infections. These are:

Travellers who become sick within a month of their arrival are encouraged to seek medical advice and contact Healthline at 0800 611 116 or a doctor and share their travel history. It is important to mention recent travel from Wuhan and any known contact with someone with severe acute respiratory illness who has been in Wuhan.

Ara Institute of Canterbury chief executive, Tony Gray encouraged all Ara colleagues and students to follow public advice to keep safe.

"Our international team has been in touch with students who will be coming from China to check on the health and wellbeing of these students and their families," he said.

"Student safety is paramount to us and will take priority. We are monitoring the situation closely and have the necessary physical preparations in place to respond if needed."

Timaru Boys' High School rector Dave Thorp, in an email to parents said that while the specific nature of the virus is currently unclear it appears that you can have the virus at an early stage and not be showing any symptoms.

"Obviously, we need to err on the side of caution."

Thorp said they were receiving updates from the Ministry of Education and were asking that any staff member or student, who may be at high risk of exposure because they have recently been to China or have been in close contact with someone confirmed with the virus, delay the start of their school year for 14 days and voluntarily stay away.

"If any of our staff or students are unwell and suspected of having an infectious disease, we will ask them stay away from school for the infectious period of the disease (Section 19 Education Act)."

Geraldine High School said on its Facebook page that the "situation is rapidly evolving internationally."

"Children and young people are currently returning to classrooms. The health of students and staff is a priority for all. If you have travelled to any of the affected countries, we would encourage you to stay away for the 14-day incubation period from the date you arrived back into New Zealand.

"Countries where the virus has been identified to date are China, Hong Kong, US, Macau, Australia, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia, South Korea, Japan, France, Canada, Vietnam, Nepal, Cambodia."