Oil prices fall to three-month low as coronavirus adds to downward pressure 
 Oil prices have plunged more than 15 percent over the past three weeks, hitting their lowest levels since October as concerns about increased global production have been amplified by fears of the coronavirus outbreak in China hurting economic growth and energy demand in Asia and beyond.



                                                                	
                                                                	The slide is the latest example of the relentless downward pressure of prices, which have received only short-lived relief from tensions in the Persian Gulf and additional output cuts by OPEC and its allies. Prices surged after the U.S. killing of a top Iranian general and Iran’s subsequent missile attack on U.S. bases in Iraq, but quickly retreated as tensions cooled and the markets refocused on rising crude production in the United States, South America and the North Sea.



                                                                	“There’s just too much oil supply,” said Bernadette Johnson, vice president at the Austin-based energy research firm Enverus.“And now the demand concerns are really dominating pricing.”



                                                                	The coronavirus disease has killed more than 80 people and infected thousands more — including a handful in the United States — triggering widespread quarantines in the Wuhan region of China. The quarantines mean less energy demand as flights in Asia get canceled and businesses stayed closed.



                                                                	Oil prices fell Monday by $1.05 per barrel in New York to settle a $53.14. Just three weeks ago, the oil price hovered above $63 per barrel at the height of recent tensions with Iran.



                                                                	So long as the coronavirus doesn’t spread into a global pandemic, slipping demand in China is just a temporary blip, said Kenneth Medlock, senior director of Rice University’s Center for Energy Studies. But even when demand picks up again, oil prices are likely to stay below $60 per barrel because of plentiful supplies.



                                                                	
                                                                	That $50-to-$60-per-barrel range kept the energy sector in a state of purgatory for much of 2019. At that level, some companies can make modest profits, but many others are losing money.



                                                                	“It’s looking like we’re going to be in this environment for quite a while,” Medlock said, barring a Mideast war or another major geopolitical event that disrupts supplies.



                                                                	On HoustonChronicle.com: Oil sector may be entering final decade of growth



                                                                	In the meantime, the same supply-and-demand dynamic from 2019 is still driving markets. The global economy, and consequently energy demand, are growing, but at a much slower pace, while production climbs at a faster rate.



                                                                	The United States, with its shale boom continuing, is churning an estimated 13 million barrels of oil per day, a record. Norway is adding production in the North Sea, Brazil is pumping out more crude and its small South American neighbor, Guyana, has emerged as a new player in global energy market as Exxon Mobil turns on the spigot from its offshore discoveries.



                                                                	Earlier Monday, Exxon said it increased its estimated recoverable reserves offshore of Guyana from 6 billion barrels of oil equivalent to more than 8 billion barrels.



                                                                	Production cuts in Saudi Arabia and other OPEC nations have done little to boost prices. Even an oil blockade in Libya, where a civil war is raging, hasn’t shifted market sentiments much.



                                                                	Crude oil’s primary use remains as a transportation fuel. And it’s not just the rise of electric vehicles that’s cutting into demand. New vehicles with internal combustion engines are roughly 40 percent more fuel efficient than the older ones they’re replacing, said energy analyst Paul Sankey of the Japanese investment bank Mizuho Securities.



                                                                	
                                                                	The coronavirus has become another factor contributing to the over-supply of oil, Sankey said.



                                                                	
                  jordan.blum@chron.com

                  twitter.com/jdblum23