George Bush airport to begin screening travelers for coronavirus 
 George Bush Intercontinental Airport will now screen travelers for the coronavirus as a precaution the airport announced Monday night.



                                                                	The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention named the Houston airport among 15 others that would begin testing. Initially, the CDC only required screening at five major U.S. airports, none of which were located in Texas.



                                                                	
                                                                	There are no confirmed cases of the virus in the state.



                                                                	"Houston Airports will continue to work closely with the CDC as logistics are still being finalized," the airport said in a tweet. "Houston Airports is waiting for further guidance on when screenings will begin and stands ready with our partners to ensure our community is protected."



                                                                	RELATED: Texas AM student tests negative for coronavirus 



                                                                	The airport directed travelers to their social media channels and fly2houston.com for further updates.



                                                                	The virus has now killed 81 Chinese people and sickened nearly 3,000, the vast majority in China. Four people in Texas suspected of having the disease have tested negative.



                                                                	Coronaviruses are a group of viruses that may produce respiratory illnesses in some people, according to the CDC. Strains that occur in animals, such as 2002-2003’s SARS virus and 2012’s MERS virus, may evolve and infect humans and can be fatal.



                                                                	Julian Gill is a digital reporter in Houston. Read him on our breaking news site, Chron.com, and on our subscriber site, houstonchronicle.com. | julian.gill@chron.com