Coronavirus Scare: 250 Indians Stuck In Wuhan As Death Toll In China Crosses 106 
 At least 250 Indians are holed up in the Wuhan province of China, the epicentre of the deadly coronavirus. The virus has claimed 106 lives in China so far and has infected more than 4,400 people. Many experts believe that the actual figures could be higher than the official numbers. 
The government of India has been in talks with Chinese officials over the evacuation of 250 Indians stuck in Wuhan. 
The worldwide scare has prompted the Union Health ministry to monitor the fall-out carefully. 
Meanwhile, a girl student from Chapra of Bihar, who returned from China reported Coronavirus-like symptoms and has been quarantined. Doctors said that her samples had been sent to the National Virology Institute Lab in Pune for testing. Another case has been reported from Jaipur and is being checked. 
Passengers returning from China are being screened for symptoms in cities across the country, Health Ministry officials stated. Close to 38,000 passengers from 173 flights were screened till Monday for novel Coronavirus infection in India, according to officials of the Union Health ministry. 
Check-up points have been set up at the India-Nepal border following reports of cases of the deadly virus in the neighbouring country. Airports have also put up signs asking those with likely symptoms to come forward. 
A signage display for advising travellers from China for self-declaration in case of symptoms of novel #coronarvirus, is put up at Trichy airport.@PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @PIB_India @MoCA_GoI @AAI_Official @DDNewslive pic.twitter.com/gUzKTkChSb
— Ministry of Health (@MoHFW_INDIA) January 27, 2020 
Meanwhile the World Health Organisation (WHO), has now revised its assessment of global risk of Coronavirus from 'moderate' to 'high.' Chinese officials have reportedly admitted that the virus' ability to spread is getting stronger. 
The US has asked China to permit international health experts into the country for research into Coronavirus. 
Scientists across the world are scrambling to come up with a vaccine against Coronavirus.