State urges students to return to class, as private schools act on coronavirus fear 
 "If students do return to learning in residence [boarding house] and have been in Hubei province without having been symptom-free in Australia for two weeks, they will be isolated and appropriate health advice sought."
People arriving at Melbourne Airport from China on Monday, wearing masks amid fears of coronavirus.Credit:Simon Schluter 
The directive is much stronger than the advice given to parents of children at state schools. The state Education Department says only students who are confirmed to have contracted the virus or had close contact with anyone who was infected need to stay away from school for 14 days.
It wrote to schools that participate in Victoria's international student program on Friday, and then to the wider government school sector on Monday.
Dr David Howes, deputy secretary of the Department of Education and Training, reaffirmed this advice on Tuesday.

"There is no reason to exclude unless they fit one of those two categories," Dr Howes said.
There are more than 6000 fee-paying international students at Victorian government schools who are due to return to school this week, including about 2000 Chinese students.
"Obviously, not all of those will have been to China and there will be many more students who have been to China just for holidays," Dr Howes said. "There will be a significant number, but that’s why it’s so important that we get out that consistent advice."
Haileybury, Caulfield Grammar, Waverley Christian College, Methodist Ladies College, Balwyn High School, Firbank and Scotch College are among schools that have instructed parents to keep students who are at risk of carrying the virus away from school for at least 10 days.
Independent Schools Victoria chief executive Michelle Green said: "Ultimately, it’s up to individual schools if, based on their individual circumstances, they decide to take additional precautionary measures to protect student health and wellbeing."

Catholic Education Victoria, which oversees more than 300 schools, has echoed the department's advice that students should go to school as normal.
Dr Brett Sutton, Victorian Chief Health Officer, said schools and others were free to take a more precautionary approach, but there was insufficient evidence at the moment to regard anyone without symptoms as being infectious.
Federal Education Minister Dan Tehan said it was not necessary to isolate students as a precaution against spreading the virus.
Travellers arrive at Melbourne Airport on Monday wearing masks. Credit:Simon Schluter
"Obviously, individual schools make their own decisions, but the advice from the Australian government is to follow our medical advice," Mr Tehan told ABC radio.

"We want to make sure that we're continuing to send a message that Australia is open for international students."
Schools, universities and childcare centres across the country, particularly those with high numbers of Chinese-background or Chinese international students, are grappling with how to manage the potential spread of the disease without causing panic or disadvantaging students.
Loading
Many are repeating federal government advice that there is no cause for alarm and the risk to the Australian public remains relatively low, while urging those who suspect their families may be affected to seek urgent medical advice and stay away.
Victoria's Education Minister James Merlino said the state government had taken the advice of experts including the World Health Organisation and Australia’s Chief Medical Officer, Professor Brendan Murphy.

"That advice is if you are well, if you are a staff or student, you should attend school," Mr Merlino said.
Loading
"The only two exceptions are if you have a confirmed case of coronavirus, or you’ve been in contact with a person who has contracted coronavirus."
Nesha Hutchinson, vice-president of the Australian Childcare Alliance, said the alliance was not aware of students being infected or services closing down.
But Ms Hutchinson said the virus was particularly bad for children.

"Adults know what a tickle in the throat is or if they're going down with the flu, but children can’t communicate that," she said.
Trinity Grammar and Newington College are among Sydney schools that have instructed students who have been to China not to attend school for two weeks.

Madeleine Heffernan edits The Age's Monday education page

Adam Carey is Education Editor. He joined The Age in 2007 and has previously covered state politics, transport, general news, the arts and food.