Travellers returning from centre of coronavirus outbreak avoiding public places in New Zealand 
 Streets are empty of people as many, like Liu's parents in Wuhan, are staying inside their apartments.

A week before Chinese authorities locked down Wuhan – the Chinese city at the centre of the new coronavirus outbreak – Yi Liu and his family flew home to Christchurch.

Since flying out on January 16, the family has been self-isolating as much as possible. The incubation period for the virus is thought to be up to two weeks, so they are erring on the side of caution and avoiding public places.

Liu, 40, has lived in New Zealand for about half his life and is president of the Chinese New Zealand Hubei Association. The group had about 200 Christchurch members, Liu said, most of whom would have friends and family in Hubei province or its capital, Wuhan.

The origins of the new coronavirus outbreak, which has reportedly killed 107 people and resulted in more than 4400 confirmed cases in more than 12 countries*, has been linked to a seafood market in Wuhan. The earliest known cases were reportedly identified in December.

READ MORE:

 * Coronavirus cases highly likely to arrive in NZ, health officials say as they seek extra quarantine powers

 * Coronavirus: Schools told to keep staff and students recently in China away from classroom

 * Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern confirms 53 Kiwis in Wuhan and 'very difficult' to bring home

Liu, his wife and two daughters, aged 8 and 12, travelled to Wuhan on December 16 for a holiday planned long in advance to see family. He said they became aware a virus was spreading in the city in late December through media reports.

As soon as he saw the reports, Liu said he immediately bought face masks from a local supermarket and the family rushed back to his parents' apartment in the suburbs.

From then on, he said he noticed more and more people were wearing face masks. As planned, Liu and his family left Wuhan on January 16. At the airport in the city, his temperature was taken as part of a screening process.

Since arriving back in Christchurch, Liu said he had had to return to work but was keeping his distance from people in the office. The family was staying at home and avoiding public places. "I don't go out anywhere else," Liu said. "I just finish, go home. I and the whole family don't go to the supermarket, don't go to restaurants."

In Wuhan, Liu said his parents were staying isolated in their apartment. They had prepared enough food to last for about a week-and-a-half or so before needing to go out for more supplies. The city, which usually has a population of about 11 million,  was locked down by authorities in a bid to slow down the spread of the virus.

Millions of people left before the lockdown came into effect, including large numbers of people who went home for Chinese New Year festivities.

Prime Minister Jacina Ardern confirmed on Tuesday 53 New Zealanders were registered as being in Wuhan.

Some people in the Christchurch Chinese community who had family in Wuhan were worried, Liu said, but he thought people should remain calm. One woman had contacted him saying her mother could not travel to New Zealand as planned because she was caught up in the lockdown.

Dr Yafei Zhou, president of the New Zealand Hubei Economy Trade Culture Association, said he was aware of one woman who had returned to Christchurch from a city in Hubei province and was isolating herself for two weeks.

People in Christchurch were staying in contact with family and friends in Wuhan and the surrounding area through social media, Zhou said, and were offering support and, in some cases, donations.

*The global spread of the virus according to a tracker developed by researchers at John Hopkins University based on data from sources including the World Health Organisation and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.