After criticism from senior Sena leaders, BMC scraps corporator ‘study tours’ 
 Thehas scrapped corporator ‘study tours’ following criticism from senior Sena leaders, an official told Mirror. Despite the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) flagging concerns about an impending fund crunch to the state government, several corporators were preparing to go on ‘study tours’.A senior Sena functionary said Tourism Ministerhas instructedcorporators, heading various civic panels, to cancel the tours.Corporators were scheduled to visit domestic and international destinations, including Shanghai and Dehradun, to study health and educational facilities in the areas. While several corporators had claimed that they would foot their bills, critics had said the tours had not yielded any concrete results in the past.A BMC health committee led by Shiv Sena corporator Amey Ghole was set to visit Shanghai. Officials said the tour would have been cancelled anyway because of the coronavirus outbreak in China. Members of an education panel were scheduled to visit Dehradun in Uttarakhand. The women and child welfare committee were supposed to fly to Kerala for a study tour and the civic tree authority was scheduled to head to Singapore.In 2016, the Bharatiya Janata Party had asked its corporators to pull out of study tours following criticism that the trips were being converted into vacations. The BJP had issued a showcause notice to corporators for going on a “study tour” to thedespite the party's diktat against the tour. In 2016, 11corporators from the civic standing committee, 22 from the works committee and former mayor Snehal Ambekar went on a four-day trip to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands to “study their water storing facilities and drainage system”. The trip was criticised as it was scheduled a the last minute and the civic body had to pay a significantly high sum for their air tickets and accommodation.Former Shiv Sena corporator Avkash Jadhav was among the critics who demanded that corporators who go on study tours must submit reports or not be allowed on trips.An official said most of these tours were funded by the BMC. “If any corporators wanted to self-fund the tours, they were free to do so,” the official said. “Now we have been told that the study tours have been cancelled. However the final approval will be given by the civic group leaders.”Shiv Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav, who heads the civic standing committee, said that he want aware of any decision to scrap the study tours.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Health committee - Shanghai, ChinaEducation committee - Dehradun, UttarakhandTree authority - SingaporeWomen and child welfare committee - KeralaImprovement committee -Bengaluru, Mysuru, Ooty, Karnataka