Coronavirus: Five million Wuhan residents are travelling, some possible disease carriers 
 BEIJING: More disturbing news emerged from Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak of the new strain of a coronavirus (nCoV): mayor Zhou Xianwang disclosed on Monday that five million people had left the city as part of the annual travel exodus during the ongoing Spring festival. The toll of lives claimed by the virus, meanwhile, rose to 81 and the number of those infected touched 3,000. The holiday exodus from Wuhan has led to fears that a good number of people are unknowingly carriers of the disease which has spread across China and to different parts of the world. China’s National Health Commission has said many people do not show symptoms of the disease although they may be carrying them. Isolating such a vast number of people poses a grave challenge and the real situation would be known when they return to Wuhan. “We also must not treat the people of Wuhan and Hubei as if they are virus spreaders regardless of where they just came from and whether they have passed the incubation period,” state controlled Global Times said in an editorial. Besides Hubei province, which has nearly 1,500 infected patients, five other Chinese provinces have more than 100 confirmed cases each, official sources said. There are signs that the coronavirus has spread to most of the country’s provinces. China extended the ongoing new year holiday by three days to Sunday to discourage people from returning home before the administration has enough time to make additional arrangements for disease prevention. Shanghai authorities have asked businesses to delay resumption of business activities till February 10 to ensure workers remain at home and do not mingle in public transport. Chinese Premier Li Keqiang visited hospitals in Wuhan and met medical personnel to assess the situation and ensure that social stability was not affected in the city. There are widespread complaints about shortage of food items and absence of internal transport which has been cut off. Meanwhile, World Health Organisation director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus landed in Beijing to discuss the measures being undertaken to control the spread and related challenges about shortage of medicines and absence of a vaccine. At least 44 cases have been confirmed abroad, including in Thailand, the United States, and Australia. There have been no deaths outside China.