Australians told to stay home from work after any trips in China 
 "We have asked staff to work from home for 14 days if they have recently returned from Mainland China."
This decision has affected staff who recently attended the UBS annual Greater China Conference, which ran until January 17, and those on holiday in the country for Chinese New Year celebrations.
People wear face masks as they wait at Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan last week. Credit:Getty Image
EY area managing partner for Asia Pacific Pat Winter said staff who had travelled to Wuhan specifically in January were being asked to quarantine themselves for 14 days and monitor their health.
"Client-related travel into Greater China at this time is still permitted, however we are encouraging staff to reduce non-essential travel and find alternative ways to connect," Mr Winter said.

Meanwhile, Deloitte chief transformation officer Clare Harding said the company was helping Australian employees working in China on a "case-by-case basis".
Loading
"At this stage, we have told our Australian teams to defer business travel to all parts of China until further notice," she said.
PricewaterhouseCoopers has asked all staff to avoid travel to the Hubei province until February 3, managing partner of people and culture Helen Fazzino said.
"We are asking employees that have returned from the Hubei Province or have come in contact with people from these areas, to work flexibly from home for 14 days after returning to their home town," Ms Fazzino said.

The Australian Trade and Invest Commission does not currently have major trade missions underway in affected areas.
"While it is business as usual for many clients, we are sensitive to the impact of coronavirus containment measures on business engagements in China, in particular non-essential travel," an Austrade spokesman said, adding the two Chinese citizens located at its Wuhan office were "safe and well".

Jennifer Duke is a media and telecommunications journalist for The Sydney Morning Herald and The Age.