8 Markets To Watch If The Coronavirus Outbreak Worsens 
 Earlier today we outlined  that traders may still be underestimating the risks from coronavirus, noting:

“At its current growth clip, coronavirus could exceed the SARS infection figures by Wednesday and more than double them by Friday.” While time will tell if and when authorities are ultimately able to contain the outbreak, traders are already starting to position for an adverse scenario. Below, we highlight eight markets that are already moving in response to the coronavirus epidemic:

1. Gold

The world’s ultimate safe haven asset, , is fulfilling its normal role during times of uncertainty. The yellow metal is trading about 0.5% higher as of writing and on track for its highest close since 2013.

2. Oil
Both major oil contracts,  and , are falling by about -2% on the day to hit their lowest levels in nearly 3 months. Obviously, any contraction in economic activity could decrease demand for petroleum, which is also plagued by oversupply issues despite production cuts from OPEC.

3. Safe Haven and Risk-Sensitive Currencies

As my colleague Joe Perry noted earlier today, the risk-off move is driving traders out of growth-sensitive major currencies such as the  and  dollars and into perceived “safe haven” currencies including the  and . As such, crosses like  and  may be particularly vulnerable among the G10 currencies, with emerging Asian currencies like the , , , and  potentially seeing spillover volatility.

4. Emerging Markets
In addition to China, many emerging market funds have heavy exposure to other fast-growing countries in Southeast Asia that could be hit disproportionately hard by further limitations to travel and commerce. To take just one prominent example, the $31B iShares Emerging Markets ETF (NYSE:) is trading off by -3% on the day.

5. Consumer Companies with Substantial Business in China

Analysts have noted that the untimely closure of Shanghai Disneyland and many theatres across the country could impact Walt  Disney  Company (NYSE:), -2%). Similarly, Starbucks (NASDAQ:), -3%) has closed all of its stores in the Wuhan and Hubei provinces. In more traditional consumer goods,   Nike  (NYSE:), -2%) derives more than $6B in revenue from Greater China and could be particularly vulnerable following last year’s tensions surrounding the NBA.

6. Airline Stocks
Fearing the potential negative impact on travel and tourism, traders are selling airline stocks aggressively. Among the three major U.S. airlines, Delta (NYSE:), -3%) American (NASDAQ:), -5%), and United Airlines (NASDAQ:, -5%) each shed more than 3% on the day. Chinese-based airlines like China Eastern (NYSE:) and China Southern (NYSE:) Airlines (NYSE:) have sold off by -7% as of this writing.

7. Other Travel-Related Stocks

Beyond the airlines, traders fear that a continued outbreak could hurt other travel-related companies. Hotel operators like Marriott International (NASDAQ:), -1%), Hyatt Hotels (NYSE:), -0.5%),  Hilton Worldwide  (NYSE:), -3%) are all falling, as are cruise lines like Carnival Corporation (NYSE:), -4%),  Royal Caribbean  (NYSE:), -7%) and Norwegian Cruise Lines (NYSE:), -3%).

8. Medical Safety Equipment Stocks
Of course, the outbreak will also create a number of short-term winners, primarily among firms producing safety equipment for medical workers and other citizens. Names in this space include  Alpha Pro Tech  (NYSE:), +19%), a mask manufacturer, and Lakeland Industries (NASDAQ:), +10%), which creates protective clothes for high-risk workers.


Original Post