'No-one was aware': The phone call that ended one family's dream holiday 
 The Northern Territory sells itself as the gateway to Asia, but that's become a concern as the deadly coronavirus takes hold on the continent.

The Territory Health Minister is confident her department is prepared to deal with the virus, although Darwin has three direct flights a week from China, and more than 500 Chinese students are expected to start school and university between now and March.

One local family has cut its year-long Asian holiday, fearing the virus will take a stronger hold in the region.

Karl and Sharon Radonich sold their Bayview home last year and have since been travelling through Thailand and Cambodia.

Their daughter Evie joined them on January 17 and they were scheduled to enter Vietnam on Australia Day weekend when Mr Radonich received a message about Coronavirus from a friend in Darwin.

Up until that moment, Mr Radonich hadn't "heard anything about this virus in Asia".

"There's not much awareness out there. Maybe now there is.

"It's not looking good."

Mr Radonich slept on the news and monitored Twitter. But in the morning, he made his concerns known to his family.

"I think we made the right decision coming home," he said.

"I'd hate to be in Vietnam now and having to deal with one of us getting sick.

"In Chiang Mai [northern Thailand], nobody seemed to be talking about it."

Mr Radonich was mainly concerned that Chiang Mai — where they were based — had regular direct flights from Wuhan, the Chinese city where the coronavirus originated.

They felt vulnerable to exposure to the virus and bought facemasks.

"We were worried we may have been mingling with people that might have had symptoms," he said.

While on the return journey, he said about 50 per cent of staff and travellers in Singapore airport were wearing masks.

The family is safe in Darwin and had a barbecue with friends on their first night.

After abandoning their Asian holiday, they're now preparing to get on the road for a grey nomad driving holiday in Australia.

But NT chief medical officer Hugh Heggie said travel in Asia was "absolutely" safe.

"The cases that have occurred in Thailand — there's only been a couple — in Korea, and Japan, they're all people who've actually spent time in Wuhan city and returned," he told the ABC.

"Standard procedures apply, such as washing your hands before eating food or touching your face."

But Darwin is closer to Asia than other Australian cities, and is a frequented town for visitors from the north, including more than 500 students.

Health Minister Natasha Fyles said she had been in contact with federal, state, and ACT health ministers and chief medical officers, and had been taking advice from Dr Heggie.

"We have students coming into Australia for study so we're making sure in the Northern Territory that those communities have the information and are looking out for their symptoms," she told the ABC.

Darwin is serviced by three direct flights each week from Shenzhen — about 1,000km south of Wuhan, where coronavirus originated.

"So we're making sure that people are aware that if they have any of those symptoms or have been in contact with anyone who has those symptoms that they take the precautions," she said.

"We have not seen any cases in the Territory but we're certainly very well prepared.

"If we are feeling unwell [we should] isolate ourselves from the community so that we don't spread, not just potentially this virus, but the flu and other easily transmissible viruses."

Ms Fyles said information was being broadcast adequately to passengers arriving in Territory air and sea ports.

Charles Darwin University vice-chancellor Simon Maddocks said the university was monitoring the coronavirus, with the semester starting on March 2.

"The university is staying abreast of changes through the Australian Government's health and travel advice and we are sharing this information with our staff," Professor Maddocks said.

"We will continue to follow official advice to ensure the wellbeing of our communities."