3 Vitamins for Your Children to Protect Against Coronavirus 
 TEMPO.CO, Jakarta - The spread of coronavirus in several Asian countries makes many people worried.The coronavirus first appeared in downtown Wuhan, China and can be transmitted from animals to humans and between humans. It can also be transmitted through contact with an infected person.In general, infections due to coronavirus are almost indistinguishable from other respiratory infections. In mild cases, they cause colds, coughs, sore throats, fatigue, and fever.A nutrition expert from the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Indonesia, Prof. Saptawati Bardosono, said that children's endurance and immunity are much more vulnerable to viruses, including coronavirus. Therefore, their endurance must be increased. In addition to macro nutrition, it is also necessary to equip children with micronutrients including vitamins and minerals.According to Saptawati, vitamins have an important function as a protector to maintains the immune system. "There are three important vitamins for children and need to be increased, especially to prevent coronavirus. They are vitamin A, vitamin C, and vitamin D," said Saptawati, who was met after the Master Class Program for Stimulation and Nutrition on Monday, January 27, 2020.Here are the 3 vitamins needed for your children:1. Vitamin AVitamin A's function is for the child's immunity and growth. "Foods that contain vitamin A are fish, cheese, shrimp, milk, eggs, carrots, sweet potatoes, broccoli, kale, and other fresh vegetables," said Saptawati.2. Vitamin CVitamin C is a powerful antioxidant and can help remove toxins in our body, as well as boosting our immune system. "Foods that contain vitamin C including strawberries, pineapple, broccoli, mango, kiwi, papaya, guava," said Saptawati.3. Vitamin DBased on the research in the Journal of Pharmacology & Pharmacotherapeutic, almost 50 percent of people from all over the world are deficient in vitamin D. Even though one of the benefits of vitamin D is to increase the immune system. "Besides getting vitamin D from the sun, you can also get it from eggs, fish, beef liver, common mushrooms, and cereals," she added.Saptawati further explained that alongside with the nutritional needs, children must be protected from environmental exposure. The most important thing is to wash hands with soap regularly after they do any kind of activities because viruses can stick to things.Eka Wahyu Pramita | Safira Andini (Intern Translator)