Wuhan virus: Singapore imposes travel curbs for those who visited Hubei in last 14 days 
 SINGAPORE — All new visitors with recent travel history to Hubei within the last 14 days will not be allowed to enter or transit through Singapore from Wednesday (29 January) 12 noon onwards, as part of new measures implemented by the Ministry of Health (MOH) on Tuesday.

The travel ban also extends to those with Chinese passports issued in Hubei, said MOH during a media conference on Tuesday. For this group of travellers, there will be a suspension on issuance of all new visas, previously-issued short-term and multiple-visit visas, and visa-free transit facilities.

MOH has already started contract tracing for recent travellers to Hubei who are already in Singapore. There are an estimated 2,000 of them, with about 1,000 on short-term visas. Should they be assessed to be of high risk, they will be quarantined.

Returning Singaporeans, permanent residents and long-term pass holders with travel history to Hubei in the last 14 days will be quarantined, as will returning permanent residents and long-term pass holders with Chinese passports issued in Hubei.

The new measures come as MOH confirmed another two cases of Wuhan virus on Tuesday, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to seven in Singapore. All seven patients are in stable condition.

One is a 56-year-old male Chinese national from Wuhan who arrived in Singapore on 19 January and developed cough symptoms on 24 January. He checked into Singapore General Hospital on 25 January and was tested positive for novel coronavirus infection on Monday.

Prior to his admission, he was staying with his family members in Pasir Ris Grove.

The other is a 35-year-old male Chinese national, also from Wuhan. He arrived in Singapore on 23 January and developed symptoms the next day. He checked into Raffles Hospital on the same day, and was tested positive on Monday.

Prior to his admission, he was staying at Marina Bay Sands.

Too early to say if Wuhan virus worse than SARS: Lawrence Wong

Wuhan virus: S'pore economy will be impacted, saving jobs a priority, says Chan Chun Sing

'Not an extended holiday': Ong Ye Kung explains leave of absence for students, MOE staff who have travelled to China

Wuhan virus: Taxi rental to be waived for quarantined cabbies