Market organizers watch coronavirus with unease 
 Jan. 28--HIGH POINT -- Furniture market organizers worry that the quickly spreading coronavirus centered in the key home furnishings nation of China could spiral into a crisis potentially impacting attendance and business activity at the city and state's largest-single economic event.

Leaders of the High Point Market Authority say at this point all they can do is monitor the outbreak of the public health emergency and keep marketgoers informed. The spring High Point Market will take place April 25-29, with Premarket set for March 16-17.

Market Authority President Tom Conley said his biggest worry centers on the coronavirus continuing to proliferate into the late winter and early spring, leading to widespread travel alerts that could tamp down people coming to the trade show.

"I don't want to jump to any conclusions or scare anybody, but it is something we are watching every single day," Conley told The High Point Enterprise.

The coronavirus, which causes symptoms similar to the flu but doesn't have a cure or vaccine yet, had killed 80 people worldwide as of Monday. The outbreak is centered in provinces of the People's Republic of China, where the government has implemented quarantines and travel restrictions -- and even began work on new hospitals -- to cope with the outbreak.

As of Monday, small numbers of cases had been reported in other nations, including the United States. But some cases in the United States at first thought to be the coronavirus were linked to other medical conditions.

Conley said one scenario that could affect attendance at the spring market involves whether the U.S. government would institute travel bans from specific countries to cope with the outbreak. Each trade show draws between 75,000 and 80,000 marketgoers, and about 10 percent of visitors are from overseas representing more than 100 countries.

At the previous High Point Market this past October, 630 people registered for the fall trade show from China. That made attendance from China second among foreign nations only behind Canada, according to High Point Market Authority figures.

Conley said the impact of the coronavirus on spring market attendance could depend on how far the virus reaches.

"This is such a fast-spreading virus that it's really tough to make any definitive statements yet," Conley told The Enterprise. "If it becomes an epidemic, then we have some issues we are going to have to talk about with everybody."

Any erosion of business and attendance at the market carries local and statewide economic implications. A Duke University study found that the trade show has an estimated annual economic impact of $6.7 billion.

Another impact of the coronavirus on the home furnishings industry could materialize in two months. China's largest annual industry trade show, the China International Furniture Fair in Guangzhou, is scheduled to take place during a pair of sessions in the last two weeks of March.

"I'm sure they are concerned about it, too," Conley said.

The coronavirus threat already has compelled one Piedmont Triad business to suspend travel to China for the time being.

The German-based company Ziehl-Abegg, which has an operation on Regional Road in western Greensboro, announced Monday it has cancelled all company flights to China. The company manufactures fans for ventilation and air conditioning systems.

Managing Director Mirco Herrmann said two company employees were supposed to travel to China in the next several days for training, but won't go now because of the coronavirus threat.

pjohnson@hpenews.com -- 336-888-3528 -- @HPEpaul

___

(c)2020 The High Point Enterprise (High Point, N.C.)

Visit The High Point Enterprise (High Point, N.C.) at www.hpenews.com

Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.