10 things in tech you need to know today 
 Britain's Prime Minister Boris Johnson alongside US President Donald Trump.
 
 
 
 Reuters
 
 
Good morning! This is the tech news you need to know this Tuesday.Donald Trump's repeated threats have 'irritated' the UK and it plans to defy him and strike a deal with Huawei. Trump has threatened to cut off its intelligence-sharing arrangement with the UK if the deal goes ahead.Europe's popular challenger banks Revolut, Monzo, and Starling are in a fundraising arms race. Unicorn fintech startup Revolut is set to close funding on Thursday that is expected to value the company at $5 billion. 'Great for the bottom line but awful for society': More than 350 Amazon workers slammed its climate policies in defiance of a crackdown on dissent. Amazon confirmed it won't allow employees to 'publicly disparage' the company.Jeff Bezos hosted an extravagant after-party for a secret club whose members wear gold medals, and it was attended by Ivanka Trump and Bill Gates. Bezos hosted the after-party for the Alfalfa Club dinner, an elite event that hosts political figures, top business executives, and celebrities.Sold-out Amazon sellers are warning shoppers about counterfeit face masks as demand soars amid coronavirus fears. The sellers are warning shoppers against buying counterfeit products in disclaimers on their product pages.So many drones and aircraft swarmed the site of Kobe Bryant's helicopter crash that the FAA was forced to close the airspace. The restriction is in effect until the end of the month to prevent aircraft from entering the airspace, a rare occurrence for crashes.Hillary Clinton slammed Mark Zuckerberg as 'authoritarian' and predicted that Facebook is 'going to reelect Trump'. Clinton also called Mark Zuckerberg "Trumpian" and said Facebook's ads policies would "reelect Trump" in a new interview.Byte, the US homegrown competitor to TikTok, admitted to a huge bot problem just 2 days after launching. Byte is the latest hot new looping video app, built by a cofounder of Vine.Motorola is warning people not to add screen protectors to the new Razr, and says bumps and lumps under the screen are 'normal'. The company is setting expectations before Razr fans get their hands on the highly anticipated Razr foldable smartphone revival.Vermont could be the first state with emoji license plates. The bill would allow Vermonters to add emoji to vanity license plates, which no US state currently allows.



Have an Amazon Alexa device? Now you can hear 10 Things in Tech each morning. Just search for "Business Insider" in your Alexa's flash briefing settings.You can also subscribe to this newsletter here — just tick "10 Things in Tech You Need to Know."