Australians trapped in Wuhan as coronavirus death toll rises 
 "We have to walk through a pool of disinfectant, which they change every day, for our feet, to clean them," he said. "They also make us go into a special ultraviolet room in order to disinfect us. We have to stay there for four minutes before we can leave."
As the death toll rises, fears for the Australians stranded in China after being caught up in the deadly coronavirus outbreak continue to mount, with the federal government vowing to evacuate nationals in the coming days.
More than 100 Australian children and their families remain trapped in the city of Wuhan, the epicentre of the mysterious and deadly coronavirus outbrea, which has so far killed 106 people and infected 4000 globally.
Five infections have been confirmed in Australia so far, but that number is expected to rise.
Those stuck in the usually bustling city of Wuhan, which has a population of 11 million people, say the atmosphere resembles a scene from a Hollywood disaster movie, as locals, tourists and expats barricade themselves indoors.

Smartphone footage taken of Wuhan at night shows people inside high-rise apartment buildings yelling out messages of support to each other.
"It is ground zero here," Mr Severino said. "Everyone is extremely fearful and that is why we must follow the measures enforced by the Chinese government very strictly."
The father-of-three said he had a small window to leave the city before all flights and train services out of Wuhan were halted last Thursday, but he chose to stay to look after his horses.
"I could not leave them behind," he said.

Sydney man Daniel Ou Yang is also stranded in Wuhan after travelling there to visit his grandparents earlier this month.
Mr Ou Yang and his grandparents have so far shown no symptoms of the deadly virus, but they have cancelled all their Chinese New Year celebrations to reduce the risk of exposure.
Daniel Ou Yang is unable to return home to Sydney after travelling to Wuhan to visit his grandparents. 
Those who have fallen ill with coronavirus are reported to suffer coughs, fever and breathing difficulties. It can also cause serious complications including pneumonia and even organ failure in severe cases.
"We are being advised to not even open our doors," the 21-year-old said. "I’m really worried for my grandparents and the younger kids here. The situation is pretty bad over here. I think it’s worse than the government is letting on. The hospitals are completely overwhelmed and obviously long-term it’s going to get more stressful."

Mr Ou Yang was meant to return to Australia on February 13.
Despite repeated attempts to contact the Australian Embassy in China, he has been given no indication of when he will be able to return home.
"A lot of residents from other countries and students have been evacuated from China already," he said. "It is frustrating not knowing."
About 400 Australians have registered for help to get out of the Chinese province of Hubei.

Meanwhile, a petition has been started on change.org to bring Australians trapped in Wuhan home safely.
Among them is Australian woman, Lily Cao, who is believed to be stuck in Wuhan with her two young children Andrea and Jimmy.
Mike Yang, former president of the Victorian branch of the Chinese Community Council of Australia, told The Age and The Sydney Morning Herald about 20 of his family members are stuck in Wuhan for the Lunar New Year period.
"I have nieces and nephews who are primary school age there," Mr Yang, who was born in Wuhan, said.
"We are keeping in contact with them on a minute-by-minute basis at the moment. It's been extremely stressful.  When you see the footage of what is happening, the empty streets, the overcrowded hospitals, it doesn't look like real life, it looks like a scene from a movie."

Melissa Cunningham is The Age's health reporter.