Indian Doctor Claims His Ayurvedic Medicine Can Cure Wuhan Coronavirus In Just 48 Hours 
 Coronavirus is spreading across China and the world like wildfire, affecting over 4000 people and claiming over 106 lives. And sadly, there is no vaccination or cure available to help patients recover. 
 Facebook/ Dr Thanikasalam Veni
In most cases, the symptoms disappear on their own. Symptoms can be eased a little by doctors prescribing fever or pain medication. However, a doctor in India claims to have created the cure for the Wuhan Coronavirus.

Dr Thanikasalam Veni who originates from Tamil Nadu and follows the medical science of Ayurveda, specifically Siddha Medicine of the region. He claims to have created a herbal medicine extracted from various plants and has been proven to work flawlessly for patients who are suffering Dengue with multiple-organ failure. 
He said in a statement to ANI, "We have formulated a medicine from an extract of herbs. It is very effective to cure any type of viral fever. Coronavirus has no medicine. In China's Wuhan where Coronavirus has claimed over 50 lives, experts have no idea how to cure the disease. Our herbal extract medicine is used to treat dengue, multi-organ fever and acute liver fever."
 "We want to tell the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Chinese government that our medicine is very effective in treating multi-organ failure in corona fever condition." 
 Reuters
He has also claimed that the infections caused by the virus can be treated in 24-40 hours as it took a similar time when they used the medicine to cure with patients suffering from dengue with low platelet count, acute liver failure, immunity deficiency and low WBCs (White Blood Cells).

He added, "In coronavirus too I am confident our medicine will be very effective."
He has also shown his motivation to help the central government of India as well as China to help the world get rid of Wuhan Coronavirus.
While there is no confirmation that this medicine will work, it’ll be worth trying out nonetheless.