Only students with 'close contact' to coronavirus should stay home: Vic authorities 
 Victoria's chief health officer says students who have travelled to China recently are able to return to school providing they are closely monitored for symptoms of coronavirus.

Dr Brett Sutton said schools should remain vigilant about the virus, which has killed more than 100 people, but only students who were unwell or had been in close contact with a confirmed case needed to stay home.

"Any child or staff member who has been in close contact with a confirmed case should not attend school or childcare for 14 days after their last contact," Dr Sutton said.

"Students or staff who have travelled to Wuhan City or other areas with confirmed cases of the illness can return to school but should be monitored for symptoms of respiratory illness."

Victoria's position is at odds with advice from officials in NSW, who are urging children who have returned from China in the past two weeks to stay away from the state's schools.

Victorian Education Minister James Merlino said that the advice from the Federal Government, the National and Victorian chief health officer and the World Health Organisation had not changed.

Mr Merlino said the position was reiterated this evening at a meeting of the Australia's chief medical officer and all state and territory chief health officers.

"Any advice that contradicts this clear, consistent and expert medical advice creates confusion and frustration for parents," he said.

"We continue to urge schools, parents, teachers and school staff to follow the advice of the experts when it comes to the novel coronavirus."

Speaking on RN Drive this evening, Federal Education Minister Dan Tehan said that a consistent approach across the states and territories would be best, but the NSW Government was responsible for schools in NSW and was entitled to take extra measures.

"The health experts have said that school exclusion is only necessary for those who are unwell or who have been in contact with confirmed cases. If we thought that there were extra steps to take … we would obviously act on that advice.

"It's very clear what the advice of our national and international experts is, but ultimately individual schools make their own decisions."



The announcement came after a number of independent and private schools in Victoria encouraged parents to keep home children who had recently travelled to coronavirus-affected areas in China.

One of the schools was Firbank Grammar School, an independent Anglican school in Brighton with about 30 students from China and Hong Kong.

Jenny Williams, the school's principal, wrote to parents last week asking them to "self-isolate" students who had returned from Wuhan or Hubei if they hadn't been symptom-free for two weeks.

"That means staying at home, away from school, during that incubation period," she said.

Wesley College, a private school in Melbourne's south-east, told parents any boarding students who had recently returned from Wuhan or Hubei may be kept separate from other students.

"If you have recently visited areas where the virus has been identified (e.g. the Hubei Provence in China), we strongly recommend that you refrain from sending your child/children to school until they have been in Australia for at least two weeks," principal Nick Evans wrote in a letter to parents.

"If students do return to [the] Learning in Residence [boarding facility] and have been in Hubei province without having been symptom-free in Australia for two weeks, they will be isolated and appropriate health advice sought."

A spokesperson for the school said: "At this stage, the school is only aware of two students who might be asked to stay home until the two-week period has passed."

Michelle Green, the chief executive of Independent Schools Victoria, said: "Ultimately it's up to individual schools if, based on their individual circumstances, they decide to take additional precautionary measures to protect student health and wellbeing."

"We are sharing with all of our member schools the latest information and advice from the Victorian Department of Health and Human Services and the Victorian Department of Education and Training," she added.

Victoria has one confirmed case of novel coronavirus, a man in his 50s who travelled to Melbourne from Wuhan.

There has been no human-to-human transmission of the virus in Australia.

Symptoms are similar to the flu, including coughing, body aches and fatigue.

Victorian authorities said anyone feeling unwell and suspected of having the illness should be isolated immediately and should phone ahead to doctors or hospitals to prevent potential contagion.