Children told to stay home if they have recently been to China 
 Parents and caregivers in NSW have been asked to delay their children's return to school if they have recently travelled to China amid the coronavirus outbreak.

Health Minister Brad Hazzard said the request - which is voluntary - was one of the toughest calls he has ever made in government.

Parents have been asked to keep their kids at home when school returns on Wednesday if their children have been in China within the past 14 days.

'It is affecting those in a country who are on high alert in any case, and most of them (parents) would be considering it a reasonable extension of the steps to protect the community,' Mr Hazzard said on Tuesday.

PLC Sydney Girls announced on Monday they are taking 'extra precautions' and have asked students to delay their return to school by two weeks if they had been to China.

'I ask that all PLC Sydney students who have travelled to China, including Hong Kong, over the holidays delay their commencement of school until 14 days after the date that they landed in Australia,' Principal Paul Burgis wrote in the newsletter.

'If your daughter has had or develops any flu-like symptoms I ask that she attend a doctor and receive medical clearance.

'If your daughter develops any flu-like symptoms once school has commenced, we expect you will take her to the doctor directly and keep her home until she is not contagious.

'Our staff will be both respectful and diligent in looking out for the health of the community.'

Private schools in Adelaide, Pembroke and Seymour College and Blackfriars Prior, have also requested parents leave their children at home if they've just returned from China.

'If you have visited the Wuhan district of China during the holidays, we ask that you refrain from sending your children to school until they have been back in Australia for at least 10 days,' Blackfriars Priory told parents on Tuesday.

'During this time, you should be on the alert for symptoms related to a fever or respiratory symptoms. These include a cough, shortness of breath, rapid breathing, a sore throat or a runny nose.'

A family of four and six others who were being tested for coronavirus in NSW were on Tuesday morning cleared but six new cases are now under investigation.

Mr Hazzard on Tuesday morning said 10 people under investigation on Monday had been cleared but six new potential cases were now being assessed.

'This will be, for some to come, an evolving situation,' Mr Hazzard told reporters.

There have been four confirmed cases of the potentially deadly coronavirus in NSW.

A 21-year-old UNSW student became the fourth case in NSW and fifth in Australia after she tested positive on Monday.

The woman flew into Sydney Airport on Thursday on the last Australian-bound direct flight out of the Chinese city of Wuhan - the epicentre of the outbreak.

The student and three men who previously tested positive are being treated at Sydney's Westmead Hospital.

All four people had either travelled to Wuhan or had contact with someone diagnosed with coronavirus in China.

A Melbourne man in his 50s was also diagnosed and is being treated at the Monash Medical Centre.

SA Health said that six people tested for the coronavirus in the state were still awaiting results while a seventh person tested had since been cleared.

Symptoms of the virus include fever, cough, sore throat and shortness of breath.