HKBN Fights Wuhan Coronavirus with Work-from-home Measure for All Office and Back-end Support Talents in Hong Kong, mainland China, Macau, Singapore and Malaysia 
 All Customer-related Services and Support Will Continue Unchanged

HONG KONG, Jan. 28, 2020 /PRNewswire/ -- In view of the spread of the Wuhan coronavirus cases, HKBN Group ("HKBN") announced that with immediate effect until 16 February 2020, as a precaution to ensure the health of its Talents and their families, HKBN has allowed all office and back-end support Talents across its operations in Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, mainland China and Macau to flexibly work from home. In addition, HKBN will halt all business-related travel to and from mainland China over the next two-week period.

As this extraordinary measure is implemented, all customer-related services and support will continue unaffected.  Protective supplies such as masks will be supplied to all front-line Talents. A robust plan is in place to monitor and review this policy as needed.

HKBN Group ("HKBN" or the "Group"), headquartered in Hong Kong with operations spanning across Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, mainland China and Macau, is a leading integrated telecommunications and technology services provider. Through three core brands, Hong Kong Broadband Network, HKBN Enterprise Solutions and JOS, the Group offers comprehensive one-stop Information and Communications Technology ("ICT") solutions that include broadband, data connectivity, managed Wi-Fi, integrated cloud solutions, information security, mobile, voice communications, IoT, big data, enterprise applications, data centre facilities, business continuity, system integration and OTT entertainment. HKBN's extensive tri-carrier fibre infrastructure covers 2.4 million residential homes and over 7,200 commercial buildings and facilities across Hong Kong. Committed to creating a lasting positive impact to wherever it operates, HKBN embraces a Core Purpose to "Make our Home a Better Place to Live". The Group is managed by hundreds of Co-Owners (supervisory and management level Talents in the Group) who invested their savings to buy shares of HKBN Ltd. (SEHK Stock Code: 1310). For more information about HKBN, please visit www.hkbn.net/en.