Breaking News Live: Opposition creating fear over CAA, says PM 
 Whatever your young ideas, your young mind wanted, our Govt did. Today, in Delhi there is a National War Memorial and also a National Police Memorial: PM Modi .Our neighbour lost 3 wars to us and then waged proxy war against us; thousands died but our army was not allowed to act: PM to NCC cadets .On one hand we have started schemes for the development of northeast. On the other hand, we have begun talks with all stakeholders; Bodo agreement is a result of this: PM Modi .They've been fighting proxy wars against India since decades. It claimed the lives of thousands of civilians, jawans: PM Modi .We know that our neighbouring country has lost 3 wars against us, our armed forces don't need more than 10-12 days to defeat them: PM Modi .Earlier, what was done for solving problems in Kashmir? 3-4 families worked not towards solving the issues but towards nurturing them. The result was that thousands of innocents died due to terrorism. People were forced to even migrate from there: PM Modi .We will have to work together keeping in mind the challenges of the past, requirements of the present and the ambitions for the future: PM .A country where youth is disciplined, has will power and determination, it can never be stopped on its path to development. India has a young population, we're proud of it but the thinking of the country should be young too: PM Modi .NCC strengthens discipline, determination and devotion towards the country among the youth: PM Modi .PM inspects Guard of Honour at NCC parade .Delhi High Court issues notice to Delhi govt on petition challenging govt's free pilgrimage scheme. Court lists the matter for July 21 to hear petition seeking direction to the govt to frame a non-discriminatory guidelines and invite fresh applications for the pilgrimage scheme (ANI) .Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the National Cadet Corps rally in Delhi (ANI) .Indian Navy Sources: Indian Navy aircraft spotted the movement of Chinese distant-water fishing fleet, supported by People's Liberation Army Navy ships, in western Indian Ocean Region when they were moving towards Morocco. (ANI) .SC allows introduction of African Cheetah in India After a tussle for nearly a decade during which SC had earlier declined introduction of African cheetah terming it as foreign species, the court says cheetah from Namibia could be introduced in India after a detailed study.Thailand confirms six more coronavirus infections, bringing total to 14 (Reuters) .Bhopal gas tragedy: Justice S Ravindra Bhat recuses from hearing matter, says he had appeared for Centre as lawyer earlier. (PTI) .Assam govt appealing to anti-talk ULFA(I) faction leader Paresh Barua to come forward for negotiations: Himanta Biswa Sarma (PTI)