Coronavirus outbreak: Bengal scholars stuck in Wuhan, food a worry | Kolkata News - Times of India 
 BURDWAN: Two researchers at Wuhan University from Bengal are among those facing "complete lockdown" in the wake of the spread of coronavirus infection in China . "It is a complete lockdown here," post-doctoral researcher Samya Kumar Ray said over phone from the university campus on Monday. Samya, who is from East Burdwan, said he is living on some fruits he had stocked and depends on his houseowner to provide food.Samya, who has been researching on mathematics at the university for the last 11 months, returned to Wuhan on January 22 to complete his papers. "I had not realized the gravity of the situation earlier. Now, I have been told that with several thousands affected, people are fleeing Wuhan. We have been advised not to step out of homes and to avoid crowded places. The owner tells me that food is very scarce," Samya said. He said the temperature is below zero degrees Celsius and the situation is very scary.Back at their Kalibazar home in East Burdwan, Samya's father, Sujit, is very worried. "I have spoken to Samya's university seniors and the Indian embassy officials there. We hope for his safe return. We are extremely worried, although embassy officials tried to reassure us. I plan to write to our district magistrate for some help as he is stuck with a limited food supply."Samya said, "We are lucky that several students have gone back to India on leave as it is holiday season here. Only a few hundred have remained at the various universities to complete their coursework or prepare for academic conferences. Now, everyone is stuck. It is not safe to step out of our homes. I am not sure how long we can survive."He said, "I had gone to India to attend a family function. When I returned to China on January 21, we were told only 70-80 people had been infected. So, I had assumed the infection will be contained. But now, we are hearing reports of several thousands being affected. Many have died. Though the reports are conflicting, the scare is forcing many to move away from Wuhan."The other Wuhan University researcher, Kazi Arif from Birbhum, is also facing the same plight. According to news reports, Kazi is now at a Wuhan hotel and has been asked not to step out. He has been asked to wear a mask all the time and maintain proper hygiene. Kazi told a media persons that local authorities are in touch with him. Kazi said he is putting up at the hotel with a friend and were awaiting instructions from the authorities.