Leaving Shanghai as the Coronavirus Extended Its Reach 
 Halfway through the three-week course, I checked and confirmed that no human-to-human transmission had been reported at that point, and explained to the students why that was reassuring — but also, given the history of viruses that have jumped from animals to humans, like SARS, why it needed to be monitored, and might change. And sure enough, at the beginning of the third and last week of classes, human-to-human transmission was confirmed.
The students who did get sick with the usual January respiratory illnesses were frightened. They got checked out, they got treated, and they had to sit through another lecture from me about getting that flu shot — not because it would protect them against this new infection, but because anyone who came down with influenza would now be terrified it might be the new coronavirus. And because influenza is also a serious illness, and there will continue to be a lot of it around.
The day before the course ended, as everyone was packing up to leave, the city of Wuhan was closed to air travel and other forms of transport, essentially locked down. What had seemed kind of unimaginable a week before suddenly seemed very close. Was it possible the travel ban would extend to all of China? And was the Wuhan quarantine an extreme measure, or was it too little too late?
The story was changing every day — new information, new anxieties. Chinese New Year celebrations were being scaled down or canceled in many parts of China. New cases were being reported from France, Canada, Australia, the United States. Scientific inquiry was proceeding fast, seemingly with good cooperation.
We were all told to be sure to get to the airport four hours early, since there would be extra screening measures. In fact, since we were traveling on the eve of the lunar New Year, the airport was pretty empty when we got there, as were the roads on the way — the vacation had begun, no one was working, and most people had already done their traveling and were in place for the holiday. There was a sign at the airport informing us that we were walking through a temperature scanner, but the lines moved quickly.