Coronavirus outbreak in China and its impact on economic slowdown 
 The world is not connected only through the Internet but also through its markets. The global markets operate in a chain with China forming the second biggest block of the economic chain. And, China is currently on a massive lockdown in one of its key provinces, Hubei to contain coronavirus outbreak. Hubei's capital, Wuhan is the transport hub in China earning the name of "thoroughfare of China". All transport is stationed till further orders here.

China is the second biggest economy of the world. Any fluctuation in the GDP growth rate projection in China's economy is bound to impact the global slowdown. India's struggle to reverse the sliding GDP growth rate is already a global worry. The coronavirus outbreak has aggravated the headache of global economy watchers and managers.

Some observers are already citing impact of past epidemic/pandemic outbreaks on world economy. In 2002-03, China was bogged down by SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) which had a higher fatality rate than the current Wuhan virus, as the current strand of coronavirus has been named.

Estimates suggest that the SARS outbreak impacted China's GDP growth rate by 1.1 to 2.6 percentage point. A similar impact of the Wuhan virus outbreak would be devastating for global economy at this point. China's and the world's economy was less interconnected and interdependent on one another back in 2002-03.

The impact of coronavirus outbreak is already being felt across the globe in stock exchanges. China's Shenzhen and Shanghai composite stock market indexes fell 3.52 per cent and 2.75 per cent respectively before closing for the Lunar New Year break. The break has been extended till the next Monday in an attempt to wrest the negative sentiments on the markets.

Stock exchanges in Japan, the US and Europe have witnessed similar sentiments. In India, the BSE Sensex fell by over 1 per cent on Monday and rupee weakened to hit a near three-week low against US dollar.

Lunar New Year is a vacation and travel time in China. Reports say that over 70 lakh people had made travel plans for abroad. But actual travel is estimated to have come down by 40 per cent compared to 2019.

The transport shutdown on massive scale in China has impacted the industry badly and affected import- export sector as well. China is currently the manufacturing hub of the world. Any prolonged clampdown on transport is bound to create ripple effect in other parts of the globe.

The full impact of Wuhan virus on China's and the global economy will be known only after the coronavirus spread has been contained fully and normal business restored. But early estimates say the coronavirus outbreak may cost China's economic growth by 0.5 per cent to 1 per cent. At 1 per cent, loss to Chinese economy will be over $136 billion. And, this is huge.

According to the Asian Development Bank, the SARS outbreak had caused a loss of $18 billion. The full scale global impact of the corronavirus impact would be much greater. Human impact, with more than 35 million people in lockdown state and threatened by the same virus, could be even greater.