Mumbai: Corporators’ costly ‘study tours’ cancelled | Mumbai News - Times of India 
 MUMBAI: Over half a dozen ‘study tours’ planned by the BMC administration for corporators to various tourist destinations from the Andamans to Ooty and Mysore to Uttarakhand stand cancelled as the higher rung of the Shiv Sena has issued a diktat to scrap them all. Some BJP corporators had objected to the tours, demanding that they be undertaken to locations from where they could bring back something productive for Mumbaikars.Meanwhile, Sena party leader in BMC Vishakha Raut said the health committee tour to Shanghai has been cancelled in view of the coronavirus-related issues. There were more than six tours planned for committees in the BMC. The improvement committee members were scheduled to go to Ooty, Mysore and Bengaluru, the tree committee members to Singapore, works committee members to Andaman and Nicobar islands, and health committee members to Shanghai, among others (see box). “It has been a party decision to cancel all the tours. Besides, the tour to Shanghai has been cancelled in the wake of the coronavirus as screening for tourists is on and it would mean inviting trouble unnecessarily,” Raut said.BJP corporator Nehal Shah, who had opposed the tour to Andamans planned for the works committee, of which she is a member, said she felt there was nothing to learn for Mumbai from the visit. “The topography and geographical conditions there are very different. What can we bring back to our city? I had therefore decided not to go,” she said.She was supported by BJP corporator Abhijeet Samant, a member of the tree committee. He said this was not the right time for BMC to be spending on study tours. “BMC’s revenue is not picking up and essential infrastructural projects may be affected. Going for a study tour, that too out of the country, was unacceptable to me,” Samant said.Opposition party leader in BMC Ravi Raja said while study tours were not bad, corporators must be expected to bring something back. “A presentation should be made of all that has been learned during a visit,” he said.