The Wuhan coronavirus: A complete visual guide 
 A deadly new strain of coronavirus has killed over a hundred people in China, and infected thousands more across the world. Indian authorities are working to pre-empt the spread of the infectant, known as 2019-nCoV. No positive cases have been reported here so far.

The World Health Organisation says the new coronavirus epidemic is a high global risk but hasn't declared it a Public Health Emergency of International Concern, or PHEIC.

This guide contains everything you need to know about coronaviruses, and the 2019-nCoV in particular. It will be updated daily as and when new information becomes available.

The Wuhan coronavirus, or 2019-nCoV, is part of a family of viruses named for the effect created by spike proteins on their shells, or capsids. Think of how the outer layer of the sun's atmosphere, known as the corona (Latin for crown), appears during a total solar eclipse.

Seven kinds of coronavirus can infect people, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). They include 2019-nCoV, and the viruses that cause Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV), both of which have killed hundreds (See microscope images below).

What are the symptoms of coronavirus infections?

The symptoms of a coronavirus infection depend on the type of infectant, but "common signs include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, shortness of breath, and breathing difficulties," the World Health Organisation (WHO) says.

Severe infections can cause conditions like pneumonia and can even be deadly, the UN body adds. In fact, 2019-nCoV was detected after Chinese health authorities reported mysterious pneumonia cases in Hubei, a central province (more on that later).

The WHO has published an exhaustive list of clinical syndromes linked with nCoV infections.

India has asked citizens who feel sick while in China, or within a month of returning from China, to promptly seek medical help and follow standard guidelines, available here. The government has also advised citizens against non-essential travel to China.

How dangerous is the Wuhan coronavirus?

The World Health Organisation's global risk assessment for 2019-nCoV is "high". It is "very high" for China, the source of the outbreak. But the UN body hasn't declared a "Public Health Emergency of International Concern" -- or PHEIC -- like the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo last year.

Over 100 people have died so far, all of them in China. More than 2,800 others have been infected in multiple continents -- a number that has risen sharply in a very short timespan. (See Reuters graphic below)

Little is known about 2019-nCoV. China has confirmed human-to-human transmission, and said the virus is infectious during its 1-14 day incubation period -- in other words, before the first symptoms appear.

For now, 2019-nCoV appears to have a lower fatality rate than the SARS virus, but it is certainly spreading much faster.

Scientists have identified 2019-nCoV's genetic code, enabling scientists to work on vaccines. There's currently no vaccine or specific treatment for infections.

Where did the current outbreak begin?

The outbreak of 2019-nCoV has been linked to the Huanan Seafood Market in the Chinese city of Wuhan, where wildlife was being sold illegally (although this theory has now been questioned). Remember, coronaviruses are initially transmitted between animals and humans.

Reports by TIME and the Wall Street Journal say the market sold all kinds of wildlife, from ostriches to porcupines.

On January 26, China announced a national wildlife trade ban in markets, supermarkets, restaurants, and e-commerce platforms.

What precautions should you take?

The WHO's standard recommendations for protection from a variety of illnesses apply to the coronavirus outbreak. Check out the infographic above for a brief overview.

India has advised its citizens against non-essential travel to China.

Indians who feel sick while in China, or within a month of returning from China have been asked promptly seek medical help and follow standard guidelines.

For more resources, read our full article on coronavirus precautions.

What is India doing to monitor the threat?

India is monitoring individuals who may have been exposed to 2019-nCoV and has an Air India plane on standby to evacute its nationals from Wuhan.

Positive cases have been confirmed in neighbouring Nepal and Sri Lanka, but there are none so far in India.

The Prime Minister's Office and the Union Ministry of Health have held meetings to review India's preparedness to deal with any outbreak.

The health ministry has published a travel advisory and several guidlines for healthcare practitioners on its Disease Alerts page.

You can follow the health ministry on Twitter at @MoHFW_INDIA.