Coronavirus death toll passes 100 as number of infections almost doubles 
 The death toll from the coronavirus has risen to 106 and the number of people infected has almost doubled in a day, reaching more than 4,500. 


China’s National Health Commission reported 25 deaths on Tuesday, with all but one in Hubei province where the virus is believed to have originated.


China has locked down cities across the province, isolating some 50 million people in a sweeping anti-disease effort.


The US Consulate in Wuhan, where authorities cut off most access last Wednesday in an effort to contain the disease, is preparing to fly its diplomats and some other Americans out of the city.


Video footage captured in Wuhan by resident Lin Wenhua shows a city shut off from the outside world, as he travels through empty streets of the city.


Mr Lin said people in the city at the centre of the outbreak are "fearful and anxious" but people "are facing the situation in a positive way".





  A number of other governments including Japan, France and Mongolia are also preparing evacuations.


After earlier refusing to commit to getting Britons out of Hubei province, the Foreign Office said on Monday they were making evacuation plans and said anyone in the province who needs assistance can call a 24-hour helpline.


Meanwhile, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the government was doing "everything we can" to help UK citizens there, while those returning from Wuhan were told to "self-isolate" for 14 days even if they have no symptoms.


It is believed the virus - which causes severe acute respiratory infection - can spread from people who are carrying it, but not displaying any symptoms.


It is thought around 1,500 people have returned to the UK from Wuhan since January 10.


Despite more than 70 people being tested for coronavirus in the UK, there have not yet been any confirmed cases.


Outside of China, more than 40 cases have been confirmed elsewhere in the world.


Other cases have been found in Thailand, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, the US, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Nepal, France, Canada, Germany and Australia.


Almost all involve Chinese tourists or people who visited Wuhan.





  China had expanded its already sweeping disease-control efforts by extending the end of this week’s Lunar New Year holiday, the country’s busiest travel season, by three days to Sunday to keep the public at home and reduce the risk infection will spread.


Chinese President Xi Jinping has called the outbreak a grave situation and said the government was stepping up efforts to restrict travel and public gatherings while rushing medical staff and supplies to Wuhan.


State media reported that the President had visited the virus-hit region over the weekend to meet with officials - a sign as to how serious the Chinese are taking this.


Wuhan is building two makeshift hospitals with about 1,000 beds each to handle patients.


The city has said the first is expected to be completed on February 3.


Meanwhile, US health officials expanded their recommendation for people to avoid non-essential travel to any part of China, rather than just Wuhan and other areas most affected by the outbreak.


Tests for students, including English proficiency, which are needed to apply to foreign universities have also been cancelled.


Public schools and universities have been ordered to postpone reopening following the Lunar New Year holiday until further notice.





  The new virus comes from a large family of what are known as coronaviruses, some causing nothing worse than a cold.


It causes cold-and flu-like symptoms, including cough and fever, and in more severe cases, shortness of breath.


It can worsen to pneumonia, which can be fatal.


The majority of those who have so far died have been elderly or had pre-existing medical conditions.


The epidemic has revived memories of the SARS outbreak that originated in China and killed nearly 800 as it spread around the world in 2002 and 2003.