European shares flat as coronavirus fears intensify – live updates 
 3) It’s official: elections are bad for your health: Over the course of a presidential campaign,  two researchers, Hung-Hao Chang and Chad Meyerhoefer, had data that showed a 19pc surge in health claims among 20 year olds - the legal minimum age of voting - compared to those too young to take part. Even during smaller mayoral elections, there was a 7-8pc rise.

4) City admits that finance isn't cool enough to woo graduates: The number of MBA graduates from leading universities entering financial services fell from 43pc in 2007 to 28pc in 2016, while only 10pc working in the sector said they planned to stay there long term, the Financial Services Skills Taskforce found. 

5) Sainsbury's pledges to go net zero by 2040 in £1bn green push: Chief executive Mike Coupe, who is leaving the business after six years at the helm, said the 2050 deadline to cut carbon emissions to net zero “isn’t soon enough”. 

What happened overnight

A rise in US and European equity futures suggested a pause in the risk-asset sell-off as the global effort to curb the coronavirus intensified. Asian stocks and Chinese contracts dropped again Tuesday, though losses pared as the session progressed.

The yuan stabilized after a sharp slide Monday that left it at its weakest since December, and the yen gave up a sliver of recent gains.

 Japanese shares fell for a second day with South Korean stocks slumping more than 3pc as that market reopened after holidays. While China reported a further increase in both the death toll and number of infected people from the virus, its top securities regulator said that investors should evaluate the impact of the deadly coronavirus objectively.

The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.8pc. Japan’s Topix Index was down 0.6pc, while South Korea’s Kospi Index fell 3.1pc

Hong Kong markets are scheduled to reopen Wednesday after lunar new year holidays, while latest guidance from China’s markets is for a reopening on Monday.

Still, as containment efforts intensify, the likelihood of the virus disrupting global businesses and the world’s second-largest economy appears to be growing.

Coming up today

Shares in Virgin Money rose sharply on Friday after the group announced Jim Pettigrew, its chairman, will step down later in the year. Sentiment is likely to be muted on Tuesday, however, when the lender offers a first-quarter trading update.

Barclays analysts say the update is expected to show continued pressure on Virgin, with loan growth growing slightly while mortgage growth remains “flattish”. They recently downgraded the group’s shares, saying a fall in underlying earnings would eat into shareholder returns.

Interim results: Airtel Africa, PZ Cussons

Full-year results: McCarthy  Stone

Preliminary results: Crest Nicholson

Trading statement: AG Barr, Luceco, Saga, Virgin Money

Economics: CBI distributive trades survey (UK), goods trade balance (US)