China mask producers work overtime to meet coronavirus-sparked demand 
 Chinese companies are working overtime to produce masks amid soaring demand caused by the country’s coronavirus outbreak.

Five of the 12 main mask-producing companies based in Guangdong province have resumed production after pausing for the lunar new year holiday, the business publication First Financial reported on Tuesday.

Guangdong has implemented a province-wide order for everyone to wear masks in public places or face unspecified fines. Videos have circulated of unmasked metro riders being ejected forcibly by security staff.

Search stats on Baidu, China’s main search engine, showed that there had been 2m queries for the term “not wearing masks can get you fined” as of Tuesday morning.

On Monday footage emerged showing a scramble for masks at the gate of a factory in Jiujiang in Jiangxi province.

Of more concern is the ability to get masks and other medical supplies to hospitals and medical staff in quarantined areas of Hubei, the province where the outbreak began. A report from People’s Daily on Monday indicated that masks were in short supply at Wuhan’s No 7 hospital.

Patrick Brogan, a Briton who has been in Wuhan since 10 January and is now stuck, said there were shortages of masks there but that his girlfriend’s father was able to pick up a box before supplies dwindled.

“We are using scuba goggles if and when we have to go out again, it’s better than nothing,” the 30-year-old from Reading said.

Meimei from Shenzhen, who did not want her full name used, said she had been trying to order masks from the US through online shops such as Amazon to distribute to people across China, but supplies are running short there too.

“It is difficult because California is having a very severe flu season,” she said. “I heard that many others are asking friends abroad to buy masks but it is very difficult.”

Meimei said she had heard supplies to Wuhan were improving but that other areas of Hubei are short.

Shenzhen Airlines dispatched a flight to Wuhan with about 100 medical personnel and 10 tons of medical gear on Tuesday, according to Meimei, who is friends with one of the cabin crew on the flight.

The Australian government has told doctors and staff at GP surgeries to wear face masks when seeing patients who may be carrying the virus, and said it was prepared to use a national stockpile to make sure there are enough to go around.

Jin Wei, a Chinese student studying in Melbourne, told the Guardian he and several of his friends had bought masks to send home to family in China. “It is still possible to buy the masks online, but many of the outlets in China are running out of stock,” he said.



Wing Kuang, a Melbourne University student from China, said many pharmacies in the city had run out of masks when she tried to purchase some last week.

Despite all the concern about masks, Dr Maia Majumder, a faculty member at Harvard Medical School who has studied Sars and Mers outbreaks, has said mask use is not as important as many people are making it out to be, particularly for most healthy people.

“For healthy folks who are around other healthy folks, the first line of defence remains hand-washing with soap, coughing into the crook of one’s arm instead of your hands, and avoiding contact with mucus membranes [of the mouth, nose, or eyes],” Majumder said.

“Surgical masks however are wise to wear for those who’re exhibiting respiratory symptoms or those who live with people who do.”

Additional reporting by Else Kennedy in Sydney