WA quartet in the clear of coronavirus for now as hotline set up 
 The welcome news came a day after Australia's chief medical officer Brendan Murphy advised one of the quartet being investigated looked likely to test positive.
"I'm advised that one of the people being tested in Perth may be positive, and the others look like they may be negative, but that's still to be confirmed," he told a national press conference.
A spokeswoman for the WA Department of Health then would not confirm whether people waiting for test results were being kept in isolation.
The newly identified coronavirus has created alarm because there are still many unknowns surrounding it, such as how dangerous it is and how easily it spreads between people.
It can cause pneumonia, which has been deadly in some cases. Chinese President Xi Jinping has called the outbreak a grave situation.

The death toll from the coronavirus has risen to 80 with more than 2700 confirmed cases, China's government said on Monday, after the health minister warned that the virus's ability to "spread is getting stronger."
WA's chief health officer Andrew Robertson said testing would continue for people who meet exposure criteria and had a clinically compatible illness.
Mr Cook said although Tuesday's results were "good", government departments would remain vigilant and explore further measures to prevent any spread of the virus.
The WA Education Department on Tuesday updated its coronavirus guidelines accordingly before school returns next Monday.

"We are asking parents of children that have travelled from China or Hong Kong in the last 14 days to keep their kids away from school until those 14 days have expired," the department said in a statement.
Mr Cook said medical advice was being provided by the Commonwealth and state government.
"We think this extra precaution will be good ... prior to the school year, just to make sure that we are taking these extra steps," he said.
Anyone who thinks they or someone they contacted may have the virus, or for general information and enquiries about the infection, call the new WA hotline on 1800 300 243.

With AP, Reuters, Washington Post

Daile Cross writes news features with a focus on social justice for WAtoday.

David writes about sports and lifestyle for WAtoday.