5 things to know for January 28: Impeachment, coronavirus, Ukraine, immigration, Prince Andrew 
 If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.

(CNN) Libraries are still the place to be! Last year, Americans visited the library about twice as often as they went to the movies, according to a Gallup poll.

Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.

On its second day of opening arguments, President Trump's defense team almost completely ignored the bombshell claims made by former national security adviser John Bolton. Instead, lawyers focused on attacking Joe and Hunter Biden, as expected. And they even brought out former independent counsel Kenneth Starr, who led the investigation leading to President Bill Clinton's impeachment, to warn senators of what he called the "age of impeachment." When the defense finally did get around to mentioning Bolton's claims, Trump lawyer Alan Dershowitz claimed that not only was any quid pro quo in Trump's Ukraine dealings not an abuse of power , but abuse of power itself is a "political weapon" and not necessarily an impeachable offense. Meanwhile, moderate Republicans are still mulling the case for having witnesses at the trial, and Sen. Mitt Romney believes it's "increasingly likely" that other Republicans would now join him in calling for Bolton to testify

See how Ken Starr's defense has flipped since 1998

See how Ken Starr's defense has flipped since 1998 02:23

See how Ken Starr's defense has flipped since 1998

The Supreme Court voted in favor of policy changes that will m ake it more difficult for low-income immigrants to come to or remain in the US . The changes to the so-called public charge rule would make it harder for immigrants who rely on public assistance to obtain lawful permanent status (i.e. a green card). While forms of cash assistance were already included in the rule, these changes would rope in other types of aid, like most forms of Medicaid, food stamps and housing vouchers. Immigration advocates oppose the rule, and several states have filed for injunctions attempting to block it. However, after yesterday's 5-4 Supreme Court vote , the rule can now go into effect everywhere except Illinois, which is covered by a separate injunction.

The FBI wants to interview Britain's Prince Andrew about the late convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, but the prince is reportedly not cooperating . After a disastrous BBC interview in November during which he appeared to downplay Epstein's crimes, Andrew promised he would help law enforcement agencies with their investigation if they asked. They asked, and now US Attorney Geoffrey Berman, who is investigating Epstein, claims Andrew "has provided zero cooperation." He also said the public deserves to know whether the prince was making good on his promises. Prosecutors continue to investigate people who may have helped Epstein carry out an alleged multi-year sex trafficking operation of underaged girls. Andrew has publicly refuted allegations stemming from his ties to Epstein.

Iowa is changing its caucus rules. Here's what you need to know before they start

Everyone is talking about the Netflix show, 'Cheer'

'Doctor Who' casts first black doctor in its history

If you want your kids to eat healthier, let them watch some cooking shows

"You know you have a terrible reputation with women."

Miriam Haley, to Harvey Weinstein years ago. Haley, a former production assistant, testified yesterday that Harvey Weinstein held her down and forced her into a sex act in 2006. During her graphic testimony, she said she was able to ward off his advances on one occasion by , to Harvey Weinstein years ago. Haley, a former production assistant, testified yesterday that Harvey Weinstein held her down and forced her into a sex act in 2006. During her graphic testimony, she said she was able to ward off his advances on one occasion by bringing up his past treatment of women

The number of prisoners who have died the Mississippi State Penitentiary , also known as Parchman prison, since the beginning of the year. The prison, which houses about 3,600 people, has been the target of intense criticism over its "failing infrastructure" and recent deaths.

All that work, just to knock it down

Yes, obviously these 15,000 dominoes are supposed to fall into this perfect rainbow spiral pattern. That's what dominoes do. But it still gives me anxiety. ( Click here to view .)