Hong Kong Suspends Rail And Ferry Links With China As Virus Spreads 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	Live Poultry Checks At Hong Kong's Man Kam To Control Point
BLOOMBERG NEWSTopline: Hong Kong is suspending all cross border high speed rail and ferry services and limiting flights to mainland China as it seeks to stem the spread of the new coronavirus.
Hong Kong’s chief executive Carrie Lam said on Tuesday that the train and ferry services would be suspended from Thursday, while the number of flights would be halved.
Personal travel permits for mainland China would also be suspended, she said in an address as she wore a facemask, Reuters reported.
Hong Kong has been weighing up several options for limiting the flow of people between the mainland and the hub. Around 400 people from Hubei who have tried to enter this week have been denied entry, the South China Morning Post reported.
Some 106 people have died, while 4,614 cases have been reported of the pneumonia-like virus, mostly in mainland China. Eight of those cases are in Hong Kong, while there are 36 across the rest of Asia.
The virus, which originated in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, has spread to Europe, Australia and North America since the first case was reported in China on December 8.
The disease is spread through droplets from coughing and sneezing and is believed to have originated from illegally traded animals in a Wuhan food market. Early symptoms include coughing, fever, and breathing difficulties.

Key background: Hong Kong officials have discussed cross-border travel restrictions for days, and initially wanted to stop passengers from the mainland transiting through Hong Kong International Airport, a major transport hub. However, that plan has been met with resistance from local airlines. 
Mainland China has stepped up its travel restrictions put in place ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday. Major celebration events were cancelled, while tour groups were banned from leaving the mainland in a blow to what is country’s peak tourism period. Millions are stuck within lockdown zones in at least 17 cities across the country, while the holiday period has been extended by three days.
In the U.S., the State Department has advised people to avoid all nonessential travel to China as it increased its travel warnings.
Tangent: With more than 4,000 people infected, there are now concerns that the virus could surpass the 2002-2003 SARS outbreak, in which 8,000 people were infected and 800 died. Investors fear that the impact of the SARS, which is estimated to have cost the global economy $40 billion, could be overshadowed by this new coronavirus outbreak. China’s role in the global economy has transformed since the early 2000s and is now the world’s second-largest economy. 
What to watch for: Apple's quarterly earnings, due on Tuesday, could be overshadowed by the coronavirus. Nikkei Asian Review reported Apple’s suppliers had warned the Cupertino-based tech giant that the virus could disrupt its plans to up production of the iPhones to 80 million devices in the first half of 2020. Meanwhile WeWork has temporarily shut 55 locations across China and encouraged tenants to work from home. 
China-based Facebook employees have also been advised to work from home, while Starbucks and McDonalds are among the biggest food chains to temporarily shut locations in affected Chinese cities, according to Bloomberg. Japanese carmaker Honda is also planning to evacuate 30 workers in Wuhan using a chartered flight. Japan has six reported cases of the coronavirus, including one person who did not travel to China. Other countries, including the U.S., are also planning to evacuate their citizens from Wuhan.