U.S. citizens are divided over Wuhan coronavirus action 
 There are around 1,000 Americans in the city of Wuhan, China — the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak — and while a few hundred are expected on Tuesday to board an evacuation flight sent by the State Department, many more remain in the quarantined city of 11 million as they try to avoid infection.
The Wall Street Journal caught up with a few of these Americans — ones who have seats on the flight and ones who don’t. The charter jet is scheduled to take around 230 people from the closed Wuhan airport, mainly U.S. diplomats and their families but also a small number of private citizens. The plane will take them to Southern California, but passengers will also go through a health screening during a refueling stop in Anchorage, Alaska.
Two of the Americans on the plane are Priscilla Dickie and her young daughter, but Dickie told the Journal that she wasn’t sure how she would get to the airport in a shut down city. She said she only saw one car on the road on Sunday.
“I have secured a seat, but the problem is transportation,” she said.

  
                  
        
          

                                    



  
    
      
        13 PHOTOS

        China coronavirus outbreak spreads across regions

        See Gallery

      

    

  


                                                                                              
    
    
                                                                                                                                                          
  
  


    

    
                                                    
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                A traveler wears a face mask as he sits in a waiting room at the Beijing West Railway Station in Beijing, Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020. A fourth person has died in an outbreak of a new coronavirus in China, authorities said Tuesday, as more places stepped up medical screening of travelers from the country as it enters its busiest travel period. (AP Photo/Mark Schiefelbein)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                A girl wearing a face mask sits among suitcases at Hong Kong International Airport in Hong Kong, Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020. Face masks sold out and temperature checks at airports and train stations became the new norm as China strove Tuesday to control the outbreak of a new coronavirus that has reached four other countries and territories and threatens to spread further during the Lunar New Year travel rush. (AP Photo/Ng Han Guan)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                Travelers wearing face masks gather at Hong Kong International Airport in Hong Kong, Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020. Face masks sold out and temperature checks at airports and train stations became the new norm as China strove Tuesday to control the outbreak of a new coronavirus that has reached four other countries and territories and threatens to spread further during the Lunar New Year travel rush. (AP Photo/Ng Han Guan)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                Staff in biohazard suits hold a metal stretcher by the in-patient department of Wuhan Medical Treatment Center, where some infected with a novel coronavirus are being treated, in Wuhan, China, Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020. Heightened precautions were being taken in China and elsewhere Tuesday as governments strove to control the outbreak of the coronavirus, which threatens to grow during the Lunar New Year travel rush. (AP Photo/Dake Kang)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                Peatones con máscaras de protección en una zona comercial de Tokio, el jueves 16 de enero de 2020. (AP Foto/Eugene Hoshiko)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                Health workers wear protective gear Wednesday, Aug. 27, 2003, in Ward E3 of the Alice Ho Miu Ling Nethersole Hospital in Hong Kong's New Territories, where 24 patients were quarantined after seven of its health workers developed flu-like symptoms, although none have tested positive for SARS. According to a hospital spokesperson five nurses and two health care assistants working in the hospital's Ward E3 developed symptoms such as coughs, sore throats and fevers on Friday.  Hong Kong's health chief, Dr.Yeoh Eng-kiong, said that preliminary test results showed patients' samples did not contain coronavirus that causes SARS and researchers are trying to identify the cause of the illness. (AP Photo/Anat Givon)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                WUHAN, CHINA - JANUARY 21 2020: Workers monitor screens for fever signs on passengers detected by infrared detectors at Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan in central China's Hubei province Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020. A new type of coronavirus has infected hundreds of people in the city.- PHOTOGRAPH BY Feature China / Barcroft Media (Photo credit should read Feature China / Barcroft Media via Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                WUHAN, CHINA - JANUARY 21 2020: Passengers wearing protective masks walk inside Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan in central China's Hubei province Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020. A new type of coronavirus has infected hundreds of people in the city.- PHOTOGRAPH BY Feature China / Barcroft Media (Photo credit should read Feature China / Barcroft Media via Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                WUHAN, CHINA - JANUARY 21 2020: Passengers wearing protective masks walk outside Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan in central China's Hubei province Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020. A new type of coronavirus has infected hundreds of people in the city.- PHOTOGRAPH BY Feature China / Barcroft Media (Photo credit should read Feature China / Barcroft Media via Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                WUHAN, CHINA - JANUARY 21 2020: Passengers wearing protective masks walk inside Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan in central China's Hubei province Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020. A new type of coronavirus has infected hundreds of people in the city.- PHOTOGRAPH BY Feature China / Barcroft Media (Photo credit should read Feature China / Barcroft Media via Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                BEIJING, CHINA - JANUARY 21: Chinese travellers wear protective masks as they arrive to board trains at Beijing Railway station before the annual Spring Festival on January 21, 2020 in Beijing, China. The number of cases of a deadly new coronavirus rose to nearly 300 in mainland China Tuesday as health officials stepped up efforts to contain the spread of the pneumonia-like disease which medicals experts confirmed can be passed from human to human. The number of those who have died from the virus in China climbed to six on Tuesday and cases have been reported in other parts of Asia including in Thailand, Japan, Taiwan and South Korea. (Photo by Kevin Frayer/Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                YICHANG, CHINA - JANUARY 21 2020: Travelers wearing protective masks walk outside a railway station in Yichang in central China's Hubei province Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020. China has stepped up the measures to control the spread of the new coronavirus that has infected hundreds of people in China.- PHOTOGRAPH BY Feature China / Barcroft Media (Photo credit should read Feature China / Barcroft Media via Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                BEIJING, CHINA - JANUARY 21: A Chinese girl wears a protective mask as her mother pushes her on a suitcase to board a train at Beijing Railway station before the annual Spring Festival on January 21, 2020 in Beijing, China. The number of cases of a deadly new coronavirus rose to nearly 300 in mainland China Tuesday as health officials stepped up efforts to contain the spread of the pneumonia-like disease which medicals experts confirmed can be passed from human to human. The number of those who have died from the virus in China climbed to six on Tuesday and cases have been reported in other parts of Asia including in Thailand, Japan, Taiwan and South Korea. (Photo by Kevin Frayer/Getty Images)

                              

            

          

              
      

      
        
          
        
      
      
        
          
        
      
      
        
          
        
      
      
        
          
        
      

      

    

    
      HIDE CAPTION

      SHOW CAPTION

      
    


    

  




Benjamin Wilson, who’s from Louisiana, is staying in the city with his family because the plane won’t take his wife, who was born in Wuhan and is a Chinese national.
“I would consider sending my daughter, if that were an option,” he said. “But I wouldn’t leave my wife. But if my wife and daughter could travel together, then absolutely yes.”
Complicating the outbreak was the timing of the Lunar New Year, which happened on Saturday and brought many into the city to celebrate. To reduce mass gatherings, China has expanded the holiday by several days, but that doesn’t do much to help those who traveled overseas and were blindsided by the epidemic.
“When I went to sleep at 10 p.m., everything was normal,” said an American who came from San Jose on Wednesday night. “When I woke up at 5 a.m., the city was in shutdown mode.”
The CDC is currently encouraging U.S. citizens to avoid all nonessential travel to China, where officials are struggling to contain the virus that has killed over 100 already. There were five confirmed cases of coronavirus in the U.S. as of Sunday, as the CDC continues to investigate potential new cases.


        
    More from New York Daily News:
                          
Eric Adams’ strategy might work: His anti-gentrification words might help him in the 2021 Democratic mayoral primary
                          
No backing down on bail now: The law remedies an injustice that persisted for decades
                          
New Jersey did it better: Compare and contrast their approach to bail reform