Can tech juggernauts restore calm to the global markets? 
 Welcome to Bull Sheet, a no-BS newsletter on what’s moving markets. In this email, global finance and investing editor Bernhard Warner discusses whether the tech heavyweights can restore confidence in markets that have been deeply shaken by the coronavirus contagion. What else would you like to see from us? This newsletter is a work in progress supported by you, our readers. Write to bullsheet@fortune.com or reply to this email with your suggestions and feedback.



Is a budding pandemic any match for tech earnings week? We’ll find out later today when Apple and eBay report results, kicking off one of the most anticipated stretches of the earnings season.



The timing couldn’t be any better. The global markets took a beating on Monday with the S&P 500 down 1.6%, its worst one-day drop since October, as coronavirus fears and its impact on global economies triggered a big sell-off.  



But today is a new day. U.S. futures are up (though slipping), as I write, as are stocks in much of Europe. A reminder: Chinese markets are in Lunar New Year holiday mode for the rest of the week.



Today’s rebound is no doubt being fueled by a bit of bargain-hunting by traders, but there’s also a bit of relief that fresh corporate earnings news will shift some of the focus from disease and death tolls to profits and forecasts.



So what should we be looking for in the first batch of tech earnings? It’s a bit of a mixed picture. As the table below shows, shares in online shopping giants Ebay and Amazon are down for the year while Alphabet and Apple have come out of the gates in 2020 surging.



Cloud, iPhones, mobile services take focus off coronavirus (for now)



***







Tech is a big bellwether for the state of the economy. Strong iPhone results and Apple’s growing services business will tell us something about the health of the consumer in 2020. Meanwhile, analysts will be poring over cloud revenues from the likes of Microsoft and Alphabet to get perspective on corporate spending trends.



But don’t get too complacent. The Fed kicks off two days of meetings today as well, and coronavirus will be on the agenda. Already some forecasters are predicting the impact of the outbreak could cause economists to re-evaluate their 2020 growth forecasts. And that could alter the Fed’s calculations on interest rates, bringing forward the likeliness of a cut by year-end. 



Stay tuned.



Bernhard Warner@BernhardWarnerBernhard.Warner@Fortune.com