Chinese State Media Releases Reports Of 'Cured' Coronavirus Infected Patients In Wuhan 
 Chinese state media and a government official are now claiming to have 'cured' patients infected off the deadly virus which has so far claimed 106 lives. 
According to a Chinese news website, Xinhuanet, a  Hospital of Nanchang University in Nanchang, east China's Jiangxi Province claims to have cured a coronavirus-infected patient.  As reported by the website, the 38-year-old man developed symptoms including fever, cough and chest tightness.
 Source/Xinhuanet
He was diagnosed with novel coronavirus pneumonia and transferred to the provincial-level designated hospital, the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, on Jan. 23. 
The report states that after being 'monitored round the clock' and given the right treatment, the patient's status improved significant and met the standards for de-segregation and discharge. 
The report, however, does not mention the use of any particular vaccine or treatment method which could have helped his infection subside. 
  Source/Xinhuanet 
Another report in RT claims that the Shanghai Municipal Health Commission cured a 56-year-old woman identified as Chen. 
The report states that after treatment, "two independent blood tests for the coronavirus came back negative, as did pulmonary CT scans." in the woman's case. 
 Chen reportedly lived in Wuhan, the city at the centre of the outbreak, for many years. She developed fever and fatigue on January 10 and was hospitalized in Shanghai on January 12.  She has now been discharged. 
There are some reports that claim that Chinese doctors are considering the use of 'Antiretroviral drug'(a drug used o treat HIV infected patients) to stop the spread of infection.

This report claims that doctors in China have cured a patient suffering from the Wuhan coronavirus using an HIV drug. The report states that the Beijing Municipal Health Commission confirmed the use of the HIV drugs to treat patients suffering from Coronavirus. 
The medication was allegedly used to treat patients with SARS – the same disease strain found in the new outbreak of coronavirus. 
 Reuters/Construction SIte Of Hospital
It must be noted that none of the reports above is conclusively and doctors are still struggling to find the cure for the illness that's rapidly spreading across the world.
According to reports, the Chinese government authorities in Wuhan are attempting to build a specialized treatment facility in the next 10 days to treat all coronavirus patients under one roof,