Coronavirus: Govt of India sets up 24X7 helpline number to attend queries on nCoV 
 As the novel coronavirus is fast spreading across the country, the government of India has set up a 24X7 helpline number to answer the queries about the Coronavirus. The Union ministry of health said in a tweet that '24X7 call centre is active for responding to queries on ncov2020. Anyone seeking information can call on the number 011-23978046,' 
 
'If you seek any help, you may call to know details about District and State surveillance officers, and in case any clinical query connects with Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) Officer,' the tweet read.
Helpline for queries on Novel #coronavirus :A 24*7 Call Centre is active for responding to queries on #ncov2020. Please make note of this number.@PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @MoCA_GoI @AAI_Official @PIB_India @DDNewslive @shipmin_india @PIBHomeAffairs pic.twitter.com/H9ddGYlI5P
— Ministry of Health (@MoHFW_INDIA) January 28, 2020 
 
As soon as the centre receives any suspected case through the call centre, they will be directed to the experts in the concerned areas. The ministry of external affairs is monitoring the passengers who are arriving from abroad. The ministry also appealed them to 'come forward for self-reporting to the call centre, the nearest health facility' if they experience any of the symptoms as follows. 
 
Here are the signs and symptoms of Coronavirus that need to 
 
-Coughing -Fever -Pneumonia -Shortness of breath -Vomiting -Diarrhoea  
What is the novel Coronavirus (nCoV)? 
 
The Novel Coronavirus (nCoV) is a large group of viruses, which causes illnesses ranging from the common cold to acute respiratory syndromes. The virus has reportedly emerged from a seafood and animal market in China's Wuhan and is suspected of having spread to as far as the United States. 
 
On the other hand, the thermal screening is being done at seven designated airports—New Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kochi. As per reports, till Monday, a total 33,552 passengers arriving in India from China in 155 flights have been screened.