Is it safe to travel to Thailand after coronavirus outbreak? 
 The death toll from the coronavirus outbreak has now risen to 106 as authorities desperately try to contain the spread of the virus.

At the time of writing, over 4,500 people are known to have tested positive for the illness, which originated in Wuhan, China.

With Thailand being one of the countries to have been affected by the virus – having seen eight cases so far – is it still safe to travel there?

At the time of writing, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) have said they ‘advise against all but essential travel to areas within the provinces on the Thailand-Malaysia border’.

While the FCO have not issued a blanket warning against travelling to Thailand, it’s a good idea to keep an eye on any updates to the government’s advice if you’re planning to travel to areas impacted by coronavirus as the advice may change as the situation develops.

People coming back to the UK from coronavirus-hit areas have been urged to ‘self-isolate’ by the Health Secretary.

Matt Hancock told MPs in the Commons on Monday: ‘Coronaviruses do not usually spread if people don’t have symptoms – but we cannot be 100% certain.

‘From today, we are therefore asking anyone in the UK who has returned from Wuhan in the last 14 days to self-isolate.’

The advice will affect around 1,500 travellers who have returned from Wuhan since January 10.

China has locked down cities across the province, isolating some 50 million people in a sweeping effort to contain coronavirus.

The US Consulate in Wuhan, where authorities cut off most access last Wednesday in an effort to stop the spread of the virus, was preparing to fly its diplomats and some other Americans out of the city.

On Sunday, the UK government was said to be ‘considering an emergency evacuation’ of more than 200 Brits trapped in China following the outbreak.

A number of other governments including Japan, France and Mongolia are also preparing evacuations.

In Germany, authorities have confirmed the country’s first case after a man contracted the illness.

The health ministry in the southern state of Bavaria said Monday that the man from Starnberg, south of Munich, is ‘in a clinically good condition.’

Officials said the man is being medically monitored and isolated, and the ministry said it considers the risk to the general population in Bavaria to be ‘low.’

Early symptoms of coronavirus include a dry cough, fever, a sore throat and shortness of breath.

Scans on some patients have shown fluid in the lungs consistent with viral pneumonia.

The World Health Organisation has recommended that anyone suffering symptoms of respiratory illness should seek medical advice and share their travel history with their care provider.

The virus is more likely to progress into a severe illness among the very young, elderly patients or those with weakened immune systems.

There is currently no vaccine available for coronavirus, and as it is a viral condition it will also not respond to antibiotics.

MORE: Number of UK patients tested for coronavirus jumps to 52

MORE: Chilling footage shows ‘ghost city’ at ground zero of coronavirus outbreak