East Croydon stabbing: Boy, 16, stabbed to death in just 40 seconds in front of horrified commuters as cops hunt killer 
 A TEENAGE boy was knifed to death just 40 seconds after walking into a station last night as cops today hunt for his killer.

Louis Johnson, 16, was stabbed in front of shocked commuters during rush hour at East Croydon station in south east London, yesterday

8

 A teenage boy was stabbed to death at East Croydon Station during yesterday's evening rush hourCredit: @MfsDeez
8

 Forensic police officers were seen working at the seen of the horrific murderCredit: Doug Seeburg - The Sun
8

 Police officers dashed to the scene as a hunt got under way for Louis Johnson's killerCredit: @Smurphy2404
8

 A tent has been set up inside the station where Louis was attacked and killedCredit: Doug Seeburg - The Sun
British Transport Police said the boy was attacked on a bridge moments after he arrived at the station with a pal.

Horrified witnesses claimed to have seen a machete-wielding man, and the teen slumped on the floor bleeding after the attack just after 4.30pm.

He died at the scene and police are hunting the killer who fled on foot.

A terrified shop worker heard the brutal attack, saying: "I saw the guy who was stabbed.

"He was screaming and shouting in pain. He was bent down, he was bleeding a lot.

"He was not saying anything, he was just shouting. There were people helping him, he was surrounded by people.

"Station staff were shouting and I pulled the shutters down because I was afraid the guy with the knife might come and do something to us."


Did you see what happened? Do you know the victim? Get in touch at ellie.cambridge@the-sun.co.uk or 02077824368


And Maria Jandova, 20, told The Sun: “I had just got off the train when I heard lots of screaming.

"I saw a boy in his early 20s slumped then falling on the floor. He looked like a nice boy with nice clothes.

“He was wearing jeans and a jacket — just a normal young guy.”

A shocked witness last night told The Mirror: "I was passed by someone with a machete when walking up to East Croydon station.

"As I reached the top of the stairs there was blood everywhere and a lad slumped in the ticket office by the barriers.

"It didn't look great, staff and security were on hand."

STATION BLOODBATH

Cops have told Louis' heartbroken family of the murder, and are yet to make any arrests.

Detective Chief Inspector Sam Blackburn said: "This was a senseless killing at an extremely busy time of the day, and my thoughts are with Louis's family at this painfully difficult time.

"For such a young man to lose his life in these circumstances is truly devastating, and I would like to reassure everyone that a thorough investigation is well under way.

"With that in mind, we continue to appeal for anyone with information to get in touch as a matter of urgency. The incident was over within a matter of 40 seconds, but I know many other passengers or members of the public would have seen what happened. If you have not already spoken with police, please get in touch."

Mayor of London Sadiq Khan tweeted last night: "Deeply saddened to learn a young man has lost his life. My thoughts are with his loved ones.

"I'm in touch with senior Met officers. The community will see an increased police presence  extra police powers have been authorised.

"I urge anyone with information to come forward."

Detective Superintendent Williams said last night: “There is a heavy police presence at the scene and the air ambulance reportedly landed nearby in Park Hill Park.

"We have now launched a murder enquiry and I am urgently appealing for any witnesses to get in touch.

REBEL WHOPPERS
 Shrieking women climb on counter  attack Burger King staff in front of girl 

Exclusive



AWOL ANDY
 6 questions Prince Andrew still has to answer over Epstein sex scandal 

dad's agony
 Distraught dad of 3 kids found dead at home says 'every breath is a struggle' 

GOING VIRAL
 Coronavirus vs SARS, Spanish flu and Ebola - death toll and symptoms compared 

PLAGUE EXPLOSION
 Coronavirus deaths up 1,600% in a week as infections DOUBLE in a day 

Breaking



GOODNIGHT NICK
 Sale of the Century host Nicholas Parsons dies aged 96 after short illness 

UNDER THREAT
 Epstein 'sex slave' lawyers threaten to subpoena Prince Andrew if he enters US 

Breaking


FIGHT FOR LIFE
 Parents' agony as judge rules baby son's life support can be turned off 

Exclusive


'MONSTER MANSION'
 Karen Matthews living in same building as 'Chucky' killer pal 

CARING KATE
 Beaming Kate Middleton dotes on kids at Evelina London Children’s Hospital 







"We believe the assault happened near the back entrance to East Croydon station near Ruskin Square, shortly after 4.30pm.

“If you were in the area and witnessed any altercation, please contact us as soon as possible.

“Alongside the Met, throughout the evening, we’ll be increasing our patrols in the East Croydon area and we have authorised additional Section 60 Stop and Search powers.”

Anyone with information should contact BTP by sending a text to 61016 or by calling 0800 40 50 40 quoting reference 395 of 27/01/2020. Or you can call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.


8

 The young man died at East Croydon Station last nightCredit: @M_CPFC
8

 Cops have told Louis' heartbroken family of the murder, and are yet to make any arrestsCredit: UKNIP
8

 Witnesses claimed they saw a man wielding a machete at the stationCredit: UKNIP
8

 Emergency services scrambled to the south London station last nightCredit: UKNIP

Moment fist bumping thugs stabbed Yusuf Mohamed in an unprovoked attack which saw victim helplessly try and get away