Coronavirus fears hit UK as hazmat-clad medics treat man in face mask 
 This is the moment hazmat-clad paramedics load a patient into the back of an ambulance in Birmingham amid fears coronavirus has spread to the UK.

Video circulating on social media shows a man dawning a face mask and a black hoodie being escorted out of a home on a residential street in Harborne.

A paramedic head-to-toe in protective gear, including a white hazmat suit, blue apron, gloves and a mask with a visor, then follows him into the ambulance.

Her isolation gown looked eerily similar to the ones worn by Chinese medics treating diseased patients in Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak.

The short clip, viewed more than 125,000 times since yesterday afternoon, has stoked fears the killer virus currently rampaging China is in Britain.

MailOnline understands the only NHS body to know exactly what is going on in the video is the West Midlands Ambulance Service, which has refused to comment.

But the Department of Health has 'not ruled out' the possibility the patient was suspected of having coronavirus.

Towards the end of the footage, two paramedics appear from behind the ambulance without any protective gear or gloves - raising concern about whether stringent enough safety measures are in place to deal with the disease.



One user, Susan Bower, wrote: 'So the ambulance drivers are not even wearing protective clothing yet do get rather close to the patient? Is the UK really prepared? I think not.'

Mia Lyons commented: 'At the end of your video appears a person without mask. I don't think they would let anybody near without protection?!'

A third person replied: 'We are prepared are we not, Matt Hancock? No face mask & no gloves on either of the paramedics.'

Wuhan coronavirus is now confirmed to have infected at least 4,500 people in 18 different countries around the world and killed 106 in China.

The US, Canada, Australia and France all confirmed cases last week while Germany, Sri Lanka and Cambodia yesterday became the latest countries to declare them overnight.

In a desperate attempt to prevent an outbreak on British soil, Mr Hancock begged travellers to stay indoors, avoid contact with anyone and ring NHS 111 if they have any symptoms.

Officials are still desperately trying to hunt down the 1,500 people who are in the UK after landing from Wuhan in the past fortnight.

Health chiefs revealed 73 people in the UK have already been tested for the never-before-seen virus – but all cases have so far come back as negative.

Public Health England admitted that the first UK confirmed case is likely to come from somebody already in the country.

In a significant ramping up of the precautions in the UK around the virus, Mr Hancock told MPs in the House of Commons on Monday evening: 'Coronaviruses do not usually spread if people don't have symptoms - but we cannot be 100 per cent certain.

'From today, we are therefore asking anyone in the UK who has returned from Wuhan in the last 14 days to self-isolate. Stay indoors and avoid contact with other people - and to contact NHS 111. If you are in Northern Ireland, you should phone your GP.

'If you develop respiratory symptoms within 14 days of travel to the area, and are now in the UK, call your GP or ring 111 informing them of your symptoms and your recent travel to the city. Do not leave your home until you have been given advice by a clinician.'

Officials have not clarified exactly how patients will be taken to hospital if they complain of symptoms.

But it is thought they will be taken in an ambulance and whisked straight off to be isolated while doctors run tests.

More than 2,000 people are thought to have jetted into Britain from Wuhan since cases first emerged last month. Mr Hancock's advice applies to anyone who has entered Britain since January 10.

Mr Hancock, who said there are four centres stood up and ready should there be a need – two in London, one in Liverpool and one in Newcastle, added: 'Having eliminated those who we know have since left the country, there are 1,460 people we are seeking to locate.'

Coronavirus: What we know so far  The virus has been identified as a new type of coronavirus. Coronaviruses are a large family of pathogens, most of which cause mild respiratory infections such as the common cold. But coronaviruses can also be deadly. SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, is caused by a coronavirus and killed hundreds of people in China and Hong Kong in the early 2000s. Yes. Eighty-one people have so far died after testing positive for the virus.  Its symptoms are typically a fever, cough and trouble breathing, but some patients have developed pneumonia, a potentially life-threatening infection that causes inflammation of the small air sacs in the lungs. People carrying the novel coronavirus may only have mild symptoms, such as a sore throat. They may assume they have a common cold and not seek medical attention, experts fear. The virus's genetic sequencing was released by scientists in China to the rest of the world to enable other countries to quickly diagnose potential new cases. This helps other countries respond quickly to disease outbreaks. To contain the virus, airports are detecting infected people with temperature checks. But as with every virus, it has an incubation period, meaning detection is not always possible because symptoms have not appeared yet. How did it start and spread? The first cases identified were among people connected to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan. Cases have since been identified elsewhere which could have been spread through human-to-human transmission. What are countries doing to prevent the spread? Countries in Asia have stepped up airport surveillance. They include Japan, South Korea, Thailand, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia and Philippines. Australia and the US are also screening patients for a high temperature, and the UK announced it will screen passengers returning from Wuhan. Is it similar to anything we've ever seen before? Experts have compared it to the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). The epidemic started in southern China and killed more than 700 people in mainland China, Hong Kong and elsewhere