Biden asks Iowa voters in final ad to'imagine all the progress we can make' 
 Former Vice President Joe Biden Joe BidenWarren: Dershowitz presentation 'nonsensical,' 'could not follow it' Bolton told Barr he was concerned Trump did favors for autocrats: report Dershowitz: Bolton allegations would not constitute impeachable offense MORE (D) is running a new ad in Iowa and online that emphasizes his electability and promises progressive change should he win the Democratic nomination.

The ad, first reported by Politico, asks voters to "imagine" the policy-related progress voters could see were Biden to defeat President Trump Donald John TrumpWarren: Dershowitz presentation 'nonsensical,' 'could not follow it' Bolton told Barr he was concerned Trump did favors for autocrats: report Dershowitz: Bolton allegations would not constitute impeachable offense MORE in the fall, while listing liberal priorities such as health care legislation and an assault weapons ban.

“Imagine all the progress we can make in the next four years. Imagine a country where affordable healthcare is a right, not a privilege," Biden says in the ad. “What we imagine today, you can make a reality. But first we need to beat Donald Trump. Then there will be no limit to what we can do."

The 30-second spot will run on Iowa TV stations and on the streaming service Hulu through next Monday, when Iowa voters will head to the state's first-in-the-nation caucuses for the first contest of the 2020 primary.

Biden is struggling to maintain a lead in the state in the face of a surging Sen. Bernie Sanders Bernie SandersGOP Iowa senator suggests Trump impeachment defense could hurt Biden at caucuses On The Money: Stocks close with steep losses driven by coronavirus fears | Tax season could bring more refund confusion | Trump's new wins for farmers may not undo trade damage Sanders launches first TV ads in Nevada MORE (I-Vt.), who has surpassed Biden in some polls of the early 2020 primary states as well as nationally.

The former vice president has sought to emphasize his moderate views and electability in the face of Sanders, a hero of the progressive wing of the Democratic Party.