Coronavirus Live Updates: Details About First Super Spreader Made Known 
 A Chinese woman wears a protective mask and sunglasses as she shops for groceries at a supermarket in Beijing on Jan. 28, 2020. (Kevin Frayer/Getty Images)

Coronavirus Live Updates: Details About First Super Spreader Made Known

The 2019 Novel Coronavirus, or the Wuhan coronavirus, has spread to 14 countries, including the United States, France, and Japan from China.

Details were finally made public about the first known super spreader of the Wuhan coronavirus.

Zhao Junshi, 69, underwent surgery to remove a pituitary tumor at Wuhan Union Hospital’s neurosurgery department on Jan. 7. No one was aware that he had Wuhan pneumonia.

On Jan. 11, he suddenly developed a fever. CT scanning indicated infection in both lungs. The doctor in charge immediately reported Zhao’s case to the contagious diseases department, asking experts from the department to help diagnose the cause of the illness.

Doctors concluded that Zhao was infected with “an unknown type of pneumonia.” There was no kit to test for Wuhan pneumonia yet.

The next day, Zhao’s condition became very serious. His chest scan showed “multiple lung shadows.” Then, some of the medical personnel taking care of him developed a fever, one after another. That’s when Zhao was put in an isolation ward.

On Jan. 15, Zhao was confirmed to be infected with the new coronavirus, and transferred to Wuhan’s Jinyintan Hospital, a contagious diseases facility. The affected medical staff were also sent to Union Hospital for isolation and treatment.

German health officials said the country’s first coronavirus patient got the virus through human transmission.

The 33-year-old man, who lives near Starnberg, just south of Munich, caught the Wuhan coronavirus from a work colleague. They traveled together to a company training in the state of Bavaria last week.

The colleague, a woman from Shanghai, “started to feel sick on the flight home” on Jan. 23, Andreas Zapf, head of the Bavarian State Office for Health and Food Safety, said at a Jan. 28 press conference, reported Deutsche Welle. The woman had been visited in Shanghai recently by her parents, who live in the Wuhan area.

The man caught the coronavirus from the woman in what appears to be the first known case outside of China of the infection spreading between people who aren’t related. Multiple cases in different countries have cropped up from transmission between family members, including a man in Singapore who flew in from China and infected his son.

The Chinese regime is likely underreporting the true scale of the coronavirus outbreak, according to a Harvard epidemiologist.

“I would say there is a very high pandemic risk,” said Dr. Eric Feigl-Ding, an epidemiologist at Harvard University, citing conclusions in a Chinese CDC report.

Guangdong’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention on Jan. 25 put the reproduction number of the virus at 2.9, saying the disease “may have a higher pandemic risk than SARS”—a large outbreak originating from southern China from 2002 to 2003, which officially killed about 800 worldwide.

Feigl-Ding said the risk was exacerbated as a result of asymptomatic patients spreading the virus unknowingly.

The mayor of Wuhan city, ground zero for the new coronavirus outbreak, sat down for a rare television interview in which he indirectly called out his higher-ups for mismanaging the crisis.

During a news program that aired on state broadcaster CCTV on Jan. 27, Zhou Xianwang said that the central government made the decision to withhold information about the outbreak.

He admitted that the city government did not publish information in time, and failed to properly contain the virus.

“Disclosures about the outbreak were not timely… As the leader of a local government, I could only publish information after I receive permission from the authorities [central government],” Zhou said during the interview.

Nicole Hao, Eva Fu, Olivia Li, Isabel Van Brugen, and Zachary Stieber contributed to this report.