Coronavirus gives Qantas another headache to deal with 
 The caveat to any analysis on the financial impact is that it is difficult if not impossible to predict the extent or duration of the spread of the virus.
The virus has certainly spooked the broader world equities markets with the Dow falling more than 1.5 per cent in Monday trading leading into a 1.4 per cent wipe out on the Australian market on Tuesday.
In Australia, Qantas was one of the major stocks leading the way down - falling by about 5.3 per cent.
UBS has reduced its earnings per share estimates for Qantas by 4-5 per cent from the 2021 financial year.
It says this is to ‘account for an expected decline in travel related to the Australian bushfires and the recent outbreak of the coronavirus in China.

‘ We now expect international traffic to decline by 3 per cent but we highlight further downside could be possible if the coronavirus spreads or the press suggestions of a 10-20 per cent decline to tourism due to the bushfires are accurate.’
The airline is also facing industrial unrest and has delayed a board decision on its Project Sunrise plan to fly directly from the east coast of Australia to New York and London until March.
Comparisons between the effects of SARS and coronavirus on aviation profits are messy. The socio-political backdrop is far different now, as is the financial state of Qantas.
Qantas chief executive Alan Joyce faces headwinds.Credit:Dallas Kilponen
Over the past ten years Qantas’ costs have been radically cut and its earnings have become more reliable.

Loading
It has also beefed up its loyalty program and created a discount carrier Jetstar - both of which will provide the company with some measure of an earnings buffer.
But airlines in general operate with a high fixed cost base and when demand declines profits are hit.
The immediate response from Qantas is likely to be to reduce capacity - particularly in its international operations. It can cut back on some routes into coronavirus affected areas, redeploy or even ground some aircraft.
UBS noted that during the SARS pandemic during which Qantas international traffic fell 11 per cent and domestic load factors dropped 4 per cent, the airline placed a freeze on discretionary expenses, incentivised staff to take leave and cut its capital expenditure.

Despite efforts to mitigate coronavirus related impacts UBS has assumed that in a scenario where international traffic declined at half the rate it did during the SARS pandemic, the result would be annualised impact on profit before tax or around $200 million for Qantas.
Based on an assumption of coronavisus having a similar impact to SARS on traffic forecasts, UBS suggests the impact to profit would be around $500 million.
UBS noted that Qantas International posted a second half loss in 2003 loss of $42 million, down from $218 million in the second half of 2002. Qantas Domestic was also hit at the time with second half earnings before interest and tax falling 82 per cent.
It is easy to see why investors are spooked.

Elizabeth Knight comments on companies, markets and the economy.