Coronavirus fears as medic in hazmat suit helps patient 'with killer bug' 
 FEARS of a coronavirus case in Birmingham were sparked after a paramedic in a hazmat suit was filmed helping a patient into an ambulance.

A terrified woman saw a neighbour suspected to have the killer bug being treated by masked medics yesterday.

She posted the clip, writing: "What have I just witnessed outside my flat in harborne #coronavirus."

Panicked pals commented "stay indoors", doesn't look too good" and "testing for the virus I suspect".

The video, watched by more than 139,000, shows a paramedic in full protective clothing, guiding a masked person into the back of an ambulance.

Another medic is seen wearing a mask, but bizarrely another paramedic in shot doesn't appear to have any protective items.

A West Midlands Ambulance Service directed The Sun Online to the Department of Health for comment.

And a spokeswoman there wouldn't comment on this case, but confirmed as of yesterday 73 tests for coronavirus have taken place in the UK - suggesting this patient was also tested.

Until the tests confirmed the patient did not have the virus, paramedics were taking precautions against the contagious bug.

No positive tests for UK patients have been reported so far, but this video and the hundreds of comments on it shows the extent of the fear it will hit Britain soon.

One worried person commented: "So the ambulance drivers are not even wearing protective clothing yet do get rather close to the patient? Is the U.K. really prepared? I think not!"

And another said: "Invest in hand sanitisers, lysol and face masks! Stay safe!"

It comes as all recent passengers arriving in the UK from Wuhan in China have been ordered to "stay at home" - even if they feel well.

Any Brits evacuated from Wuhan, the centre of the deadly outbreak, in the coming days will also be asked to self quarantine for at least two weeks.

The warning, from health secretary Matt Hancock, comes amid fears the lethal coronavirus that's killed at least 81, is more contagious than previously thought.

Scientists warn there is evidence the virus can be transmitted even if the carrier has no symptoms, such as a fever or cough.

Coronavirus is an airborne virus, spread in a similar way to colds and the flu. Symptoms include a runny nose, headache, cough and fever, shortness of breath, chills and body aches. It is incredibly contagious and is spread through contact with anything the virus is on as well as infected breath, coughs or sneezes. Symptoms include a runny nose, headache, cough and fever, shortness of breath, chills and body aches. In most cases, you won't know whether you have a coronavirus or a different cold-causing virus, such as rhinovirus. But if a coronavirus infection spreads to the lower respiratory tract (your windpipe and your lungs), it can cause pneumonia, especially in older people, people with heart disease or people with weakened immune systems. There is no vaccine for coronavirus. In 2003 an outbreak of a similar virus, SARS, infected more than 8,000 people in 37 countries before it was brought under control, killing 800 of those worldwide.

Ministers want all 1,500 people who have flown in from Wuhan since mid-January to remain indoors and limit contact with others for at least a fortnight.

But officials admit only one in ten has so far been tracked down - making it harder to enforce the proposed lockdown.

Public health bosses were accused of wrongly telling carriers arriving from China that they didn't need testing for the flu-like illness.

England's chief medical officer Professor Chris Whitty said there was a "fair chance" cases would emerge in Britain as the overall number reported around the world climbed to about 2,744 including 80 deaths, which have all occurred in China.

Last night, it emerged that suspected coronavirus carriers who have arrived from China in recent days were reportedly only tested if they had "the sniffles".

Reports emerged after the Chinese government announced on Sunday that infected people can spread the virus for up to two weeks before showing any symptoms.

A senior NHS source told the newspaper that patients who called the 111 service had not been offered tests unless they showed signs of the virus.

They said: “Our specialists followed the official advice from Public Health England to the letter."