Wuhan virus: MOM to reject new work applications of workers from Hubei 
 SINGAPORE — The Ministry of Manpower (MOM) will reject all new work applications for foreign workers from Hubei, with immediate effect until further notice.

This comes in the light of the multi-ministry taskforce on the Wuhan coronavirus taking further measures on Tuesday (28 January) to limit the risk that travellers to and from the China province pose to Singapore.

“As of today, we have rejected more than 30 new applications,” MOM said in a media statement on Tuesday. “Renewal applications for existing work-pass workers from Hubei will not be affected.”

In addition, existing work-pass holders from Hubei who are currently away or with recent Hubei travel history within the last 14 days should defer their return to Singapore. Otherwise, they will be quarantined at home or other suitable facilities upon returning.

MOM said that employers should inform these employees that they will be quarantined if they choose to return to Singapore.

“We expect employers to be responsible and ask these employees to defer their return until the situation stabilises,” it added.

Employers should also closely monitor Wuhan virus-related developments, and follow travel and health advisories on the Ministry of Health website. Employees are urged to cooperate with their employers.

Employers are advised to check MOM’s website for latest updates on the Wuhan virus situation, given that there may be additional requirements being imposed on work-pass holders from time to time.

With three new Wuhan virus cases confirmed in the past 24 hours, bringing the total to seven cases, Singapore has implemented travel restrictions for all new visitors with recent travel history to Hubei within the last 14 days, as well as those with Chinese passports issued in Hubei.

Wuhan virus: Singapore to bar new visitors with travel history to Hubei in last 14 days

Wuhan virus: 2 petitions in Singapore calling to ban travellers from China making rounds

Wuhan coronavirus in numbers: How it's spreading worldwide