Coronavirus Death Toll Grows, Shaheen Bagh-Inspired Protests In Mumbai And Other Top News 
 Chinese health authorities that the death toll due to the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak in the country has increased to 106, with 4,515 confirmed cases in 30 provincial-level regions. 
 AFP
The National Health Commission said that 976 patients remained in critical conditions and a total of 6,973 people were suspected of being infected with the virus as of Monday night, reports Xinhua news agency. Read more 
Inspired By Shaheen Bagh, Hundreds Of Women Stage Protests In Mumbai Against CAA, NRC 
Inspired by the women of Shaheen Bagh in Delhi who have been protesting the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), National Register of Citizens (NRC) and National Population Register (NPR) for more than a month now, women of Mumbai are also staging a similar protest. 
 BCCL
A group of Muslim women, including household helps and students, in Mumbai have started an indefinite protest against CAA. They have vowed to not leave the protest site until the government withdraws the contentious act. Read more 
 Those Seeking Indian Citizenship Must Give Proof Of Religious Beliefs Under New Citizenship Act 
The government has made it clear that n on-Muslim refugees from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan will have to provide proofs of their religious beliefs while applying for Indian citizenship under the controversial Citizenship Amendment Bill (CAA), which is currently being drafted by the Home Ministry.

The applicants belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Christian, Buddhist, Jain or Parsi faiths will also have to furnish documents to prove that they entered India on or before December 31, 2014. Read more 
Kerala's 1st Gay Couple Who Got Married In A Temple Move High Court To Get Marriage Registered 
Nikesh and Sonu, the first married gay couple from Kerala who got married in 2019 have now filed a petition in the Kerala High Court seeking to legally register their marriage. 

In their petition, they argued that the refusal to register homosexual marriages under the Special Marriage Act 1954 violates the principles of equality, non-arbitrariness, non-discrimination, individual dignity and personal autonomy under Articles 14, 15(1), 19(1)(a) and 21 of the Constitution of India. Read more 
Demolish Mosques, Shaheen Bagh Protesters Will Rape Your Daughters: BJP Minister Parvesh Verma 
After BJP IT head Amit Malviya claimed that Shaheen Bagh protesters are orchestrated and that women are being paid Rs 500 and given biryani, another BJP minister gave a hate speech against people of Shaheen Bagh, who have been protesting for more than 40 days against the contentious citizenship legislation. 

BJP MP Parvesh Verma said, "Lakhs of people gather there [Shaheen Bagh]. People of Delhi will have to think and take a decision. They will enter your houses, rape your sisters and daughters, kill them.” Verma added. Read more 
Engineers Asked To Keep Stray Animals At Bay During UP CM Yogi Adityanath's Visit 
Engineers in Uttar Pradesh have been given another responsibilty that has raised eyebrows. Officials trying their best in pleasing their political masters seems to have become a norm in Uttar Pradesh and the following incident adds credence to this fact. 

The Public Works Department (PWD) in the state reportedly deployed nine junior engineers to ensure that there is no 'stray animals' seen during the chief minister's visit to Mirzapur on Wednesday. Read more