Coronavirus Hits Korean Duty-Free Shops, Cosmetics Companies 
 A disinfection worker wearing protective gears spray antiseptic solution in a train amid rising ... [+] public concerns over the spread of China's Wuhan coronavirus on January 24, 2020 in Seoul, South Korea.
Photo by Chung Sung-Jun/Getty ImagesThe Wuhan coronavirus is biting into the South Korean economy, hitting duty-free shops and cosmetics companies that count on planeloads of Chinese tourists for major profits over the Lunar New Year holidays, as the East Asian country’s fourth case was confirmed on Monday.
Fears grew after a 55-year-old man was reported suffering from the virus, which had not been detected when he arrived in Korea from Wuhan last week, but then showed up at a clinic for what he had thought was merely a cold.
The numbers on Korea’s stock exchange told the story as the Korea Composite Stock Price Index, or KOSPI, fell by 3.09% on Tuesday—the first trading session after the four-day Lunar New Year holiday. Shinsegae, Hotel Shilla and Lotte Shopping, all of which own duty-free shops, dropped by 12.07%, 10.31% and 7.31%, respectively.
Also hit hard by the sharply reduced influx of Chinese tourists to Korea: the cosmetics and travel industries. Share prices in Amorepacific, the Korean cosmetics giant, fell 8.47% and LG Household  Health Care was down 7.12%. Hanatour Service and Modetour Network dropped by 10.18% and 9.26%, respectively.
With a growing number of people canceling trips to China, Korea’s two major airlines, flag carrier Korean Air and Asiana Airlines, both said they would not be charging cancellation fees for flights to China.
The coronavirus also hit the operations of major Korean companies in Wuhan. Steelmaker POSCO shut down its steel-processing center in the Chinese city until Sunday, the last day of the extended Lunar New Year holidays in China, Yonhap news agency reported. SK Global Chemical evacuated 10 Korean workers in its Wuhan manufacturing facility, the Korea Herald reported.
South Korean President Moon Jae-in on Monday called for “preemptive measures” to prevent the spread of the coronavirus in the country through secondary infection and ordered military medical units to utilize their facilities, if necessary, according to Yonhap. Mobile phones buzzed with “emergency alert” messages, and technicians, clad in protective clothing from head to toe, sprayed with disinfectant in airports as fears grew of a pandemic in the Korean penninsula. In China, there are more than 4,000 confirmed cases of the coronavirus and over 100 people died from the virus as of Tuesday.