Health officials deny coronavirus has struck Birmingham after video sparks panic 
 Footage uploaded to social media shows a man wearing a white face mask and black hoodie being escorted out of a home on a residential street in Harborne, Birmingham.

A paramedic, dressed in protective gear, then follows him into the ambulance.

The video, which has been viewed nearly 150,000 times since it was posted on Twitter yesterday afternoon, sparked fears that the deadly coronavirus had reached England.

Hundreds of comments on Twitter were posted, with one person writing ‘get a mask, stay safe’ and another writing ‘doesn’t look so good’.

However, a spokesperson for PHE has reassured those who are worried, saying personal protective equipment (PPE) is used for a variety of different infectious diseases.

They told Metro.co.uk: ‘Ambulances all have PPE suits to stop patients from passing diseases onto vulnerable people. They are worn for a variety of infectious diseases.

‘There have been no positive tests in the UK and if a case was confirmed, there would be an announcement from the Department of Health and Social Care straight away.’

The West Midlands Ambulance Service told Metro.co.uk they could not comment on the footage.

The video emerges as the death toll from the coronavirus rises to 106 in China.

Authorities reported 25 deaths on Tuesday, with all but one in the Hubei province where the virus is believed to have originated.

The total number of cases has now reached more than 4,500 and the health crisis is said to have quarantined at least 56 million people.

The UK government – which also says the risk is ‘low’ – has advised people returning from Wuhan to isolate themselves, even if they don’t have symptoms.

Matt Hancock said precautions should be taken because officials cannot be 100% certain the virus is not spread by people who are not displaying symptoms.

The health secretary told MPs in the Commons: ‘Coronaviruses do not usually spread if people don’t have symptoms – but we cannot be 100% certain.

‘From today, we are therefore asking anyone in the UK who has returned from Wuhan in the last 14 days to self-isolate.’

Advising people to contact NHS 111, he added: ‘If you are in Northern Ireland, you should phone your GP. ‘If you develop respiratory symptoms within 14 days of travel to the area, and are now in the UK, call your GP or ring 111 informing them of your symptoms and your recent travel to the city.

‘Do not leave your home until you have been given advice by a clinician.’

Ministers have said they are working to get Britons out of the Hubei province, with Prime Minister Boris Johnson saying the Government is doing ‘everything we can’.

An airlift for British people stuck in Hubei is being kept ‘under review’, the government has said.