Treasury yields inch higher as stocks aim to recover from steep drop 
 U.S. Treasury yields rose slightly on Tuesday as investors took a breather from the coronavirus worries which helped spark the biggest single-day drop in major equity indexes in several months on Monday.

The 10-year Treasury note yield TMUBMUSD10Y, +0.69%   edged a single basis point higher to 1.615%, a day after hitting its lowest level since Oct. 9, while the 2-year note rate TMUBMUSD02Y, +0.69%   was virtually unchanged at 1.433%, around its three-month nadir. The 30-year bond yield TMUBMUSD30Y, +0.61%   rose 0.9 basis point to 2.064%.

The coronavirus continued to dominate the attention of market participants amid reports that Asian financial center Hong Kong was now imposing new travel restrictions in China. Official reports now indicate that more than 100 people have died from the coronavirus, and the latest tally reflecting more than 4,500 confirmed cases.

See: Economic hit from coronavirus likely to be short lived, but it’s still ‘a little scary, frankly’

But Xinhua News reported that the coronavirus could reach its peak in a week or 10 days, based on an interview with Zhong Nanshan, an expert on respiratory viruses.

Asian equity markets continued to reel amid deepening fears over the virus in China. But U.S. stocks are on track to stabilize after Monday saw the biggest single-day decline for the Dow DJIA, -1.57%   and S&P 500 SPX, -1.57%   in nearly four months.

Stock-market futures for both major benchmark indexes suggest a higher open for Wall Street on Tuesday.

The Federal Reserve will begin its two-day policy meeting on Tuesday, though few analysts are expecting any big changes to the central bank’s monetary policy stance. However, investors are hoping for some details on the Fed’s balance sheet expansion and whether it was contributing to easier financial conditions.

In economic data, U.S. durable goods orders for December are due at 8:30 a.m. ET, and is likely to reflect Boeing’s suspension of 737 Max airplane production. The Conference Board’s U.S. consumer confidence index for January is later set for release at 10 a.m.

“Markets continue to be dominated by deliberations about the impact (economic and otherwise) of the coronavirus with the number of fatalities and infections rising and the first fatality reported in Beijing,” wrote Peter Schaffrik, global macro strategist for RBC Capital Markets.