How BATS spread coronavirus and Ebola causing countless horrific deaths - and they secretly live in your loft 
 ALL over the world, bats are associated with Halloween and dark and deadly deeds.

And we're right to associate them all things evil — because the killer viruses they spread make them a terrifying threat to humans.

More than 80 people have already died as a result of a coronavirus outbreak in China, with authorities still desperately scrambling to contain the contagion.

It's believed the lethal epidemic began at a market in the city of Wuhan — which has since been quarantined — where bats were sold to eat.

Genetic analysis of the coronavirus has led scientists to think humans caught it from snakes, with the snakes catching the bug from bats.

But the virus, which can lead to difficulty breathing and even fatal pneumonia, is just the latest lethal disease bats have brought into humans' bloodstreams.

There are 18 different species of bat that live in the UK, with an estimated 2.5million bats native to Britain.

Worse still, some types of bat love to roost in human dwellings like loft spaces, bringing them into chillingly close contact with people.

And while bats get infected with some of the most dangerous viruses known to medicine, they don't make them sick because they're completely unaffected by the pathogens which are harmful to humans.

And unlike rats and other rodents, which have a well-known reputation for spreading disease, infected bats can cover huge geographic areas because of their ability to fly and migrate to different places year-round.

Yet despite their dangers, animal-loving Brits go out of their way to be kind to the critters.

Norfolk County Council even spent the batty sum of £1million to build seven "bat bridges" over a new A-road — the structures are supposed to help bats fly at a safe height over the traffic by mimicking missing hedgerows and trees.

But with the terrifying death toll bats have been blamed for around the world, why are we protecting them?

The current coronavirus menace has already gone global — as well as hundreds of confirmed infections in China, the sickness has also been logged in the US, Japan, South Korea and Thailand.

Hundreds more suspected cases are also being investigated in the UK and Mexico too.

Alarmingly, this new threat isn't the first killer coronavirus bats have brought to the human population.

Between 2001-2003, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) caused 774 deaths in 17 countries around the world when over 8,000 patients were infected with the pathogen.

Infected people developed flu-like symptoms before life-threatening breathing problems set in after a few days.

It was eventually discovered that the epidemic could be traced back to horseshoe bats living in a remote cave in southwest China.

Like the current coronavirus, it's believed the virus spread to humans through an intermediary species being sold at food markets — in the case of SARS, it was masked palm civets.

“Poorly regulated live-animal markets mixed with illegal wildlife trade offer a unique opportunity for viruses to spill over from wildlife hosts into the human population,” the Wildlife Conservation Society said last week.

But it's not just coronaviruses that bats carry.

Fruit bats are thought to be the main "reservoir" of ebolaviruses.

This means that while the bats carry the virus and spread it, they don't suffer any symptoms themselves.

And the symptoms of Ebola are horrific — patients have a high fever and suffer severe dehydration from vomiting and diarrhoea.

Within a week, some patients start bleeding internally and externally, coughing and vomiting blood while others also bleed into the whites of their eyes.

The first outbreaks of Ebola came in 1976 in what is now South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

Between then and 2013, the World Health Organisation clocked 2,387 cases resulting in 1,590 deaths from the disease.

But then in December 2013, a huge Ebola epidemic in West Africa caused 28,646 infections and a staggering 11,323 deaths.

It's thought that Ebola spreads to humans from animals, which in turn can get the virus by eating fruit partially eaten by infected bats.

But more direct interactions between bats and humans may be responsible for the deadly epidemics.

Bats were known to roost in the cotton factory where the first confirmed cases of Ebola broke out in 1976, and they've also been implicated in later outbreaks too.

And animals hunted in tropical forests for human consumption can also be infected and give Ebola to people.



While dogs are responsible for around 99 per cent of all rabies transmissions to humans globally, bats play their part in spreading the terrifying illness too.

Rabies causes infected mammals' brains to become inflamed, leading to violent movements and a bizarre fear of water before nearly always resulting in death.

It spreads to humans when an infected animal bites or scratches a person, or if its bodily fluids get in the eyes, nose or mouth.

Rabies ends up being transmitted because the virus causes its host to produce huge amounts of saliva and, during the "furious" stage of infection, makes its host bite anything near it.

India accounts for around a third of the world's human rabies cases every year because of laws preventing the killing of stray dogs, with around 20,000 people dying from the disease every year.

The problem is made worse by the myth of "Puppy Pregnancy Syndrome" in which people believe puppies are growing inside them after they've been bitten by rabid dogs, and they seek the help of faith healers instead of medical doctors.

But rabies is found in the Western world too — where bats are a much greater menace than dogs.

Between 1997 and 2006 in the US, 17 of the 19 cases of human rabies involved bats.

Four people woke up when a bat landed on them in bed and six had handled bats while taking them out of their houses.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advise people to be on the lookout for any bats that are active during the day and to take caution around any bat that is unable to fly and easily approached.