US is evacuating Americans from Wuhan as death toll from new coronavirus exceeds 100 in China 
 U.S. consulate staffers and other Americans in Wuhan will be evacuated to California on Wednesday as the death toll rose to 106 from a new virus racing through China.

Wuhan, a city of 11 million in central China, is the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak. The State Department said some private, paying U.S. citizens would be added to the flight leaving Wuhan Tianhe International Airport bound for Ontario, California.

"This capacity is extremely limited and if there is insufficient ability to transport everyone who expresses interest, priority will be given to individuals at greater risk from coronavirus," the department said in a statement.

President Donald Trump tweeted Monday that U.S. officials are in "very close communication" with China and offered aid to President Xi Jinping as his nation grapples with the coronavirus.

A pilot's perspective on coronavirus:Should you wear a surgical mask? What did SARS teach travelers?

The new coronavirus has sickened more than 4,500 people across the country and 106 people have died. China’s National Health Commission said more than 1,700 cases and 26 deaths were reported Tuesday alone, including the first death in Beijing.

More than 70 cases have been confirmed outside China, including five in the U.S. None of those patients have died.

Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, said 110 people in the U.S. are "under investigation" for the virus but added that human-to-human transmission of the virus has not been documented in the U.S.

There is no vaccine, although drugmakers are scrambling to create one.

The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation announced that it is immediately committing $10 million in emergency funds and "corresponding technical support" to help first responders in China and Africa accelerate their efforts to contain the global spread. The foundation said it is already working with a Chinese public and private sector partners to accelerate national and international cooperation in efforts to identify and confirm cases, safely isolate and care for patients, and accelerate the development of treatments and vaccines.

'Everything now is experimental.' Here's how doctors are treating coronavirus

Hong Kong has confirmed eight cases. Chief Executive Carrie Lam, during a news conference in which she and her staff wore surgical masks, said Tuesday that train service to the mainland will be halted and flights and bus service drastically reduced.

Lam was also forced to drop a plan to use two empty public housing blocks as a quarantine site for coronavirus patients after protesters clashed with police and set fire to the buildings.

On Monday, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the State Department expanded their travel advisories to cover all of China due to the coronavirus outbreak.

The CDC issued a Level 3 travel warning, its highest level, recommending travelers avoid all nonessential travel to China. Previously only Wuhan, the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak, was at a Level 3. The rest of China was rated Level 2, which recommends "practice enhanced precautions.''

The broader travel alerts come as the U.S. plans to expand screening for the virus to 20 airports from the current five.