Chinese police catch people fleeing coronavirus quarantine zone on dinghy 
 This video appears to show Chinese police patrolling a riverbank after people trapped in a coronavirus quarantine zone attempted to escape on rubber dinghys.

Dozens of uniformed officers can be seen guarding the embankment in Hunan, which borders the locked-down province of Hubei – the epicentre of the deadly outbreak.

In the footage, a person can be heard saying ‘Hunan side does not want Hubei people coming’ and ‘look, they are sneaking to Hunan province. but they got blocked’.

Chinese artist Badiucao, who translated the audio for Metro.co.uk, said it was ‘sad and absurd’ to see residents of Hubei become ‘refugees in their own country’, amid mounting panic over coronavirus.

He told this news site: ‘It is really sad to see people turn on each other like that.

‘Hubei people are refugee in their own country now. Lockdown is essential to virus control, but without sufficient supply & information transparency，quarantine will just generate panic and desperation.

‘I dont think Chinese government has prepared for the needs of the people under quarantine And that leads to the sad and absurd moment we see from the video.’

It is thought the location of the video could be Gong’an in the Chinese city of Jinzouh, which borders Hunan to the south.

Badiucao said he received the video on messaging app Tellegram. However, tracing is original source is not possible due to censorship in China.

The communist government has tight control on the country’s media and Internet and often censors any form of criticism.

Tellegram is officially banned in China but is widely used by rights activists and other whistleblowers due to its end-to-end encryption and ‘secret chat’ feature.

Badiucao, a dissident who lives in Australia, said the contents of the video is fitting with the mood of panic and desperation among residents in quarantine zones.

More than 20 cities in Hubei, including Wuhan, where the disease first emerged,  have been placed under lockdown, isolating some 50 million people in a sweeping anti-disease effort.

People have complained of not knowing where there next meal will come from amid fear food and medical supplies will run out.

Images have shown supermarkets ransacked and streets deserted as people desperately try to avoid catching the pneumonia-like virus.

Chinese citizens like Badiucao,have come up with creative ways to express their dissatisfaction.

When the outbreak first began in December 2019, authorities led the public to believe it was ‘under control’ and down played similarities to the SARS outbreak, which killed over 800 people in 2003.

The death toll has now risen to 106 and the number of total cases has reached more than 4,500 worldwide.

Cases have also been confirmed in Germany, the United States, Thailand, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Nepal, France, Canada, Australia and Sri Lanka.

US health officials expanded their recommendation for people to avoid non-essential travel to any part of China, rather than just Wuhan and other areas most affected by the outbreak.