Coronavirus fears in Birmingham as patient escorted by medic in hazmat suit 
 Coronavirus fears spread to Birmingham as a medic wearing a full-body hazmat suit was filmed escorting a patient to an ambulance.

Footage shows a man wearing a face mask and a hood pulled up over his head entering the back of the ambulance in Harborne.

He is joined by a medic who is wearing a white suit, a mask with a visor, gloves and a blue apron, and carrying a bag of equipment.

In the video, two paramedics in uniform are not wearing protective suits and at least one is not wearing a mask, sparking questions about measures to prevent the spread of the disease to Britain.

Have you been affected by the coronavirus outbreak? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.

Health officials refused to say whether the patient was being tested for coronavirus.

The scene was filmed by a woman whose flat overlooks the street.

She wrote on Twitter: "What have i just witnessed outside my flat in harborne #coronavirus."

Her video has been viewed more than 143,000 times on Twitter since Monday afternoon.

A Department of Health spokesman said: "There are no confirmed cases of Coronavirus in the UK and we can’t comment on individual cases or provide a commentary on any tests that might be underway."

Viewers questioned why two of the paramedics were not dressed head-to-toe in the same protective gear as their colleague.

One tweeted: "So the ambulance drivers are not even wearing protective clothing yet do get rather close to the patient? Is the UK really prepared? I think not."

Another wrote: "At the end of your video appears a person without mask. I don't think they would let anybody near without protection?!"

A third, referencing the Health Secretary, added: "We are prepared are we not, Matt Hancock? No face mask & no gloves on either of the paramedics."

Britain has not had a confirmed case of SARS-like coronavirus, which has killed more than 100 people and infected more than 4,500 others during an outbreak in China.

Public Health England said more than 70 people in Britain have been tested for the flu-like illness, but all of the tests came back negative.

However, it warned that it the virus is likely already in the UK.

Officials are trying to trace more than 1,500 people who recently travelled from Wuhan - the epicentre of the outbreak in China - to the UK in the past two weeks.

Outside of China there have now been 45 confirmed cases in 13 countries, with no deaths so far, World Health Organisation spokesman Christian Lindmeier said.

Germany declared its first confirmed case on Monday, joining France, which was the first European country to recorded cases.

Cases have also been confirmed in Japan, South Korea, the US, Singapore and Sri Lanka.