Young Crash Victims Shared Kobe Bryant’s Passion for Basketball 
 Good morning.
(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)
On Monday, as more information emerged about the helicopter crash that killed nine people, including Kobe Bryant and his 13-year-old daughter, Gianna, the sports world grappled with the sudden loss of a towering, complicated figure.
Here’s what to know:
While fans — particularly Latinos, who embraced Mr. Bryant as one of their own — continued to grieve for him and his daughter, families and friends began to mourn the seven other victims of the crash, my colleagues reported.
Among the victims were John Altobelli, the longtime coach of Orange Coast College’s baseball team; his wife, Keri; and their daughter, Alyssa, who was scheduled to play in a youth basketball tournament.
Sarah Chester and her daughter Payton, also a 13-year-old basketball player, were remembered as part of a loving Corona del Mar family, “full of mischief and laughter.”


Christina Mauser had coached Gianna Bryant at a Newport Beach school, before Mr. Bryant, who crowned her “Mother of Defense,” hired her to coach for a team at his Mamba Academy.
And the pilot, Ara Zobayan, of Huntington Beach, was remembered as a kind man and an experienced, capable aviator.
Read more about the lives that ended in the crash. [The New York Times]

Also, the Orange Coast College baseball team is set to continue with its season opener today: “I think ‘Alto’ would want us to play.” [The Orange County Register]

The Lakers-Clippers game scheduled for tonight has been postponed. [The New York Times]




The helicopter involved in the crash had gotten special approval to fly in weather so foggy that a witness nearby said people were having trouble driving.
The pilot was both certified to fly under instrument conditions — meaning he could navigate even with low visibility — and certified to teach others. But if he had switched to instrument conditions, he would have had to land at an airport.


Mr. Bryant’s death led to difficult discussions over how to understand the legacy of a man who was accused of sexual assault, but also was a fiercely loved hero to many.
Here’s a look back at the case, which played out long before the #MeToo era. [The New York Times]

When the Washington Post reporter Felicia Sonmez tweeted a link to an article detailing the allegation, she was harassed and threatened by fans of Mr. Bryant. Ms. Sonmez was suspended, prompting a backlash from other journalists, including 200 of her colleagues. [The New York Times]

Erika D. Smith wrote in a column that neither Mr. Bryant nor the late rapper Nipsey Hussle was a saint. But, she contended, they both spent their lives working to demonstrate that “while you can never erase what you have done, personal growth is a thing and that it is within each of us.” [The Los Angeles Times]

Louisa Thomas wrote that Mr. Bryant’s true power was as a storyteller — and that included how he shaped the world’s view of his ugly chapters and his great ones. [The New Yorker]

Talia Caldwell, a professional women’s basketball player, wrote, “I can’t say that I have reconciled my thoughts about this incident with how I feel about his legacy of support for women’s basketball.” Still, she hopes Mr. Bryant will be remembered as a powerful ally whose cerebral style inspired players of all sizes. [New York Times Opinion]


Here’s what else we’re following
We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times coverage, but we also encourage you to support local news if you can.


On Sunday, health officials confirmed two cases of the dangerous coronavirus in California, one in Los Angeles County and one in Orange County. That brings the total to five in the U.S. [The Orange County Register]

And on Monday evening, health officials said they were looking into a potential new case in San Diego County. [The San Diego Union-Tribune]


Looking to catch up on the international outbreak? Here’s what you need to know. [The New York Times]
Behind-the-scenes communications show that the private prison operator GEO Group, in spite of a law effectively barring it from the state, is continuing to expand. Its facility in the city of Adelanto is a case study. [The Desert Sun]

New DNA technology helped officials tie a Delano man to the gruesome murders of five of his infant children. [The New York Times]

San Francisco’s police union is battling with its new district attorney, Chesa Boudin, this time over Mr. Boudin’s decision to withdraw charges against a man who was shot by the police, who said the man had attacked officers with a bottle. [The San Francisco Chronicle]

In the impeachment battle, there are Californians on the front lines — for both sides. [The New York Times]

Some residents of Santa Rosa’s two-mile long, 250-resident homeless encampment on the Joe Rodota Trail were moved into tiny houses at a camp about nine miles east. It was a slow start, but a start. [The Press Democrat]


And Finally …


We asked you to share any favorite memories of watching Kobe Bryant play basketball, or any encounters off the court.
We got lots of responses: A grandfather stood next to him as they both waited for their families at the end of “Mr. Toad’s Wild Ride”; a fellow parishioner at Our Lady Queen of Angels in Newport Beach asked for prayers.
But one story stood out. It came from Celeste Perez, who was 9 years old in 1996, when Mr. Bryant was signed by the Lakers.


Ms. Perez wrote that her Filipino-American family had followed the draft closely that year, and they were surprised when they seemed to be the only ones who recognized Mr. Bryant, hanging out by himself at Universal CityWalk, a short time after he arrived.
“Wearing an all-white ensemble and a beret to top it off, Kobe looked like a lost member of Boyz II Men,” she wrote.
The big group sent its most basketball-savvy cousin to congratulate Mr. Bryant, whose face, Ms. Perez recalled, lit up. He motioned for the rest to come over, too.
In lieu of a photo or an autograph (the family had run out of film and didn’t have paper handy) and “in true Filipino fashion,” she said, the family invited him to join them for dinner at Bubba Gump Shrimp Co. He politely declined.
But later, he tracked them down, bearing a postcard signed “Kobe Bryant #8.”
“I noticed he had other postcards that he’d practiced his autograph on,” Ms. Perez wrote. “We must have been among the first to ask him.”
Ms. Perez’s family promised to watch “every one of his games as a Laker.” They didn’t know they’d be watching for two decades.


California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. Were you forwarded this email? Sign up for California Today here.
Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, graduated from U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.
California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.