Coronavirus fears in Brum as man in isolation with 'flu symptoms' 
 This is the moment medics wearing hazmat suits arrived at the home of a Harborne man - who recently returned from China with flu-like symptoms.

Drew Bennett, 39, told BirminghamLive he was at home on Arosa Drive, when two ambulances turned up carrying medics in full-body suits.

The sight was captured on video by a local resident who watched the scene unfold from her nearby flat.

Despite the video, the Department of Health said there had been no confirmed cases of coronavirus in the UK.

Drew, however, remains in isolation while awaiting urgent blood test results.

The clip shows a man wearing a face mask entering a waiting ambulance while two other medics stand nearby alongside the hazmat-suited worker. Watch the footage above.

Drew said he had returned from Wuhan - the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak -  on December 31.

Back in Birmingham and feeling unwell, he took to his bed - believing it to be a serious case of the flu.

His symptoms eventually subsided and he visited the doctor on Monday, January 27, for an unrelated matter.

There his GP asked if he had visited China and when it emerged he had and subsequently been ill, he was told to return home.

An ambulance was sent to his address and Drew was taken to the Queen Elizabeth Hospital where he was put in isolation.

Speaking exclusively to BirminghamLive from his hospital bed, Drew said he is awaiting blood test results.

"I had been in Wuhan on holiday over Christmas and came back to Harborne on December 31," Drew said.

"Once I got back I was really ill with, what I thought, was a bad case of the flu. At that stage coronavirus hadn't really been mentioned so I thought nothing of it.

"However, when I went to the GP on Monday and he asked as a precaution if I had been to China, he seemed really concerned.

"I was sent home and before I knew it, ambulances and people in hazmat suits had turned up.

"I'm now in isolation at the QE and just waiting to get my blood test results.

"I don't feel particularly unwell now, but I've not been 100 per cent since returning from Wuhan.

"Since I got over the worst symptoms I've been back to work, shopping, just normal life.

"It's a really worrying time and not a nice experience."

According to Gov.co.uk,  As of 27 January, a total of 73 UK tests have concluded, of which 73 were confirmed negative and 0 positive.

The government said they are monitoring the situation closely and will continue to work with the World Health Organization (WHO) and international community.

If and when a first case in the UK is confirmed, it will be announced as soon as possible by the Chief Medical Officer of the affected country. This will be followed by a statement by England’s Chief Medical Officer, Professor Chris Whitty.

Drew, who works in sales, was taken to hospital at around 4.20pm on Monday (January 27).

Mollie Lune managed to capture the footage from her flat, before sharing it on Twitter.

The post read: "What have I just witnessed outside my flat in harborne?"

The 20-year-old spoke to BirminghamLive and said it was 'worrying'.

She said: "I saw the ambulance outside first and it was there for about an hour which I thought was unusual.

"Then I saw two people in hazmat suits. One had already gone into the ambulance by the time I grabbed my phone to record it. There was an ambulance and two ambulance cars there as well. The two paramedics had face masks on."

Mollie is 35 weeks pregnant and has just moved into her flat in the leafy suburb.

"It's handy as it's near to the QE. I had to call my mum and she said to stay indoors so it was worrying."

Many took to Twitter to comment on the footage.

To keep up-to-date with the latest breaking news from across the city join our dedicated Facebook group here

West Midlands Ambulance Service said the incident was being dealt with by the Department of Health.

The Department of Health said they were unable to comment on specific cases.

We have contacted the Queen Elizabeth Hospital for more information.