Apple, Starbucks Face Different Challenges In Coronavirus Outbreak 
 Apple CEO Tim Cook attends the first meeting of the American Workforce Policy Advisory Board with US ... [+] President Donald Trump in the State Dining Room of the White House in Washington, DC, March 6, 2019. (Photo by SAUL LOEB / AFP)        (Photo credit should read SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images)
AFP/Getty ImagesUS market leaders are waking up to a different rendition of the same old tune in January 2020. China has the potential to wreck the best-laid plans for companies dependent on labor productivity there - or on the burgeoning Chinese consumer economy. 
Starbucks’ stock was down more than 3.5% Monday January 27, as it grappled with business shutdowns across the Hubei province, including in Wuhan. The Seattle coffee chain will announce earnings January 28, and analysts will be sure to queue up with questions about Starbucks’ forecast in China. 
Starbucks' presence in the Wuhan region leaves its consumer-facing business exposed to losses should ... [+] a Coronavirus shutdown there continue. 
Thinknum Alternative DataThinknum Alternative Data tracks 128 locations within the Hubei province that Starbucks has likely shut down. For years, Starbucks has steadily increased its presence in the Hubei region, according to data. The map above tracks locations of Starbucks’ locations, as well as several hotels, each of which have suspended operations in Wuhan, within the Hubei province. 
Because Hubei is valuable to China from an industrial productivity standpoint, a prolonged shutdown of any activity from a business standpoint is going to be damaging - not just to its consumer economy. 
It is believed that failure to contain the Coronavirus outbreak before the end of Q1 in China will force it to miss leadership’s prized 6% GDP target - but whether or not industrial activity slows precipitously like consumer businesses will be indicated in many companies job postings - including Apple. 
Apple job postings in China have risen to years-long highs in 2020. 
Thinknum Alternative DataAnd right now, Apple hiring in China is at a years-long (and, likely, an all-time) high. Thinknum Alternative Data tracks job postings and Apple job postings in China have risen 48.5% from January 28, 2019, to January 27, 2020. Because it only has a dozen job listings currently posted in Wuhan, according to Thinknum data, Apple may be able to maintain productivity in other regions so that its projections aren’t disrupted. 
But the arrival of the Coronavirus comes at a particularly critical time for the Chinese economy, and to American businesses operating there. 
Apple isn’t the only US market leader to get back to business in China, either. Both Tesla and IBM also ramped up job postings in the end of 2019, or in early 2020, as it became increasingly clear Presidents Donald Trump and Xi Jinping were working closer to a resolution for the first phase of the US-China trade dispute. 
Now, there is a new challenge.