Sanders launches $2.5 million television ad buy in California, Texas 
 Sen. Bernie Sanders Bernie SandersGOP Iowa senator suggests Trump impeachment defense could hurt Biden at caucuses On The Money: Stocks close with steep losses driven by coronavirus fears | Tax season could bring more refund confusion | Trump's new wins for farmers may not undo trade damage Sanders launches first TV ads in Nevada MORE's (I-Vt.) campaign revealed on Tuesday it will launch a $2.5 million television ad buy in California and Texas, marking the campaign's first ad buy in the Super Tuesday states.

"It is thanks to our grassroots donors that we can make big investments in the vital states of California and Texas," Sanders's campaign manager Faiz Shakir said in a statement.

California and Texas are two of the largest delegate prizes in the party's primary.

News of the launch comes as Sanders's leads in the Democratic primary pack in a number of state polls ahead of the first Democratic nominating processes.

A new Los Angeles Times survey showed Sanders leading in California with 26 percent support ahead of the state's March 3 primary.

Sanders appears to face more of an uphill climb in Texas. A CNN poll released last month showed Sanders with 15 percent support.

If Sanders performs well in the early Democratic nominating contests, he could sustain enough momentum going forward into Super Tuesday.

A New York Times/Siena College survey released last week showed Sanders leading in Iowa with 25 percent support, while a CNN survey showed Sanders leading with 25 percent support in New Hampshire.

However, the progressive senator, along with a number of his competitors, will have to contend with former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg Michael Rubens BloombergSteyer would have owed M more in taxes under lawmakers' proposal: liberal group Majority sees no ties between business experience and political success Fifth congressional Democrat backs Bloomberg in 2020 race MORE, who has poured millions into the Super Tuesday states.

Bloomberg, who is not fundraising, has already spent $270 million on advertising across the country ahead of the primary contests.

His efforts appear to be paying off in polls. A new Morning Consult survey shows him surpassing former South Bend, Ind. Mayor Pete Buttigieg Peter (Pete) Paul ButtigiegOvernight Energy: Sanders scores highest on green group's voter guide | Trump's latest wins for farmers may not undo trade damage | Amazon employees defy company to speak on climate change Sanders surges to first in New Hampshire: poll Majority sees no ties between business experience and political success MORE with 12 percent support nationally.