In the News January 28, 2020 
 UCLA In the News lists selected mentions of UCLA in the world’s news media. Some articles may require registration or a subscription to view. See more UCLA In the News.

Mohammed’s international reputation is still besmirched by the Khashoggi killing, which the CIA believes took place with his knowledge. But analysts say the opaque nature of Saudi palace politics makes it hard to assess the effect at home. “I don’t think anybody outside the kingdom can answer that,” said James Gelvin, a professor of modern Middle Eastern history at UCLA.

“I think that there are important unanswered questions about this outbreak,” said Anne W. Rimoin, an epidemiologist at the UCLA Fielding School of Public Health and director of the UCLA Center for Global and Immigrant Health. “We don’t know how easily people transmit the virus or how ill it can make otherwise healthy people. We just don’t know the true risks posed by this new virus, and these are the questions that will need to be answered.” (Also: Spectrum News 1)

Koh’s music industry professor, Dr. Paul Young, pointed her in the direction of University of California, Los Angeles’ Music Industry Clinic (MIC), a new student-run service created by law professor and Azoff MSG Entertainment co-president Susan Genco, who designed it as an experiential complement to her lecture course. Koh applied for the clinic’s free legal services and within a week, a small fleet of law students were poring over her agreement.

Still, some scholars — including Kara Cooney, an Egyptologist at the University of California, Los Angeles — have expressed concerns over the implications of the new study. Though she acknowledges the work’s potential, Cooney tells the Times, “When you’re taking a human being and using so much inference about what they looked or sounded like, it can be done with an agenda that you might not even be aware of.”

And despite the insinuation that the gun control proposals in Virginia violate the Second Amendment, none of the policies — which are law in other states — have been deemed unconstitutional by the Supreme Court, according to UCLA law professor Adam Winkler.

The youth ambassadors want to turn the subjective experiences of the attendees (qualitative data) into quantitative data that they can use to form their strategy moving forward. To this end, they’ve worked with Alex Norman, Professor Emeritus of Social Welfare at the UCLA Luskin School of Public Affairs to develop their behavior and questions, so as to get accurate and comprehensive data for their project.

What we do know is that a hangover involves dehydration, changes in hormone levels, inflammation, blood pressure, and other body functions, resulting in symptoms such as headache, fatigue, nausea, and anxiety, Timothy Fong, a physician who sees patients at the UCLA Addiction Medicine Clinic, tells Mic. “Everyone experiences them a little differently.” The number of drinks it takes to get a hangover also varies from person to person. Some (lucky) people don’t get hangovers at all.

William Beveridge, who’s often described as the father of the U.K.’s modern welfare state, elaborated on Keynes’s ideas in a 1944 book titled Full Employment in a Free Society. Its central proposition was that “the market for labor should always be a seller’s market,” where “people actually feel empowered to say, ‘This job is crummy—I’m going to go and get a comparable job right across the street,’ ” says David Stein, a historian at the University of California at Los Angeles.

The games come from overseas, most often Japan, China or Korea, according to Timothy Fong, co-director of the Gambling Studies Program at UCLA. “These are not traditional casino games that people are used to, you know, blackjack and craps tables,” Fong said. “These are a combination of video games and games of chance that are not available in brick-and-mortar casinos, so that’s why they have their own kind of flavor to them.”

Merrill was involved in a previous study at the University of California, Los Angeles showing that exercise and higher adherence to a Mediterranean style diet can affect brain structure and degeneration. “We can absolutely say both physical and mental activity is good not just for primary prevention, but for people who have this condition to prevent or slow down progression,” said Merrill.

Being diagnosed with cancer can be a scary time in one’s life as the disease often takes an emotional and physical toll on those who are diagnosed. But thanks to the surgeons and staff at the UCLA Breast Center Santa Monica, residents do not have to go through the fight alone.

Anti-drug laws in the 1980s and anti-terrorism laws in the 1990s gave officials more power to apprehend and detain immigrants, but the root causes of crimmigration go beyond any specific law or policy, says Cecilia Menjívar, a sociologist at the University of California, Los Angeles. “It’s part of a much bigger trend toward criminalizing certain populations,” she says. “It’s easy to blame immigrants for anything that goes wrong.”

The new virus, known as Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV), is concerning precisely because it’s new. “We are in the very early stages and some of the details and facts we would like to know are not quite available,” says Robert Kim-Farley, MD, professor-in-residence at the UCLA Fielding School of Public Health.