Niagara health department mum on any local coronavirus cases 
 There are at least 19 people in Ontario who have been quarantined while being tested for possible infection with the coronavirus, but Niagara's medical officer of health will not say if any of them are local.
 "We don't comment on people under investigation for an illness," Dr. Mustafa Hirji said Monday. "That's not something we are going to do."
 The 19 quarantined, according to Dr. David Williams, Ontario's chief medical officer of health, are people who have exhibited symptoms of respiratory illness who have also been to the Wuhan area of China, the epicentre of the outbreak, in the past 14 days. 
 Williams said during a Monday press briefing that 15 suspected cased have been cleared.
 Hirji said those under investigation are not confirmed cases of coronavirus infection. They are people who fit the two most basic criteria of a potential infection — respiratory symptoms and travel to China.
 "At that stage, the enquiry is not delving into whether or not the symptoms are more likely to be a better fit with another illness," Hirji said. "Those people will be isolated and then there will be laboratory tests to determine if they have the coronavirus."
 Hirji said if family doctors and other health-care practitioners have a patient who fits those criteria, they have to isolate the patient and contact the public health department, which will co-ordinate with Niagara Emergency Medical Services to have that person moved to local hospital for testing.
 A patient may be quarantined at hospital or isolated in their home, pending results of tests.
 A single positive test is labelled a "presumptive case" with a second test required to confirm it. There have been two presumptive cases in Toronto in the past week.
 Hirji, said his department has been in contact with Niagara's three schools that have large international student bodies — Brock University, Niagara College and Ridley College high school.
 Hirji said the public health department wanted to ensure the schools' health units were using the same infection control protocols as family doctors and other medical facilities.
 In a statement to The St. Catharines Standard, spokesman Mike Wales said the college began monitoring at both its campuses last week. The college's health services department has not seen anyone who meets criteria of possible infection.
 In a Monday statement on its website, the college said students who meet criteria should isolate themselves and call a health-care professional or campus health services. The statement advises students to call ahead rather than walking into a clinic.
 In a Monday email, Brock spokesman Dan Dakin said the university also began on-campus monitoring last week and is providing students with information via its website.
 Hirji said while there have been comparisons made to the 2003 outbreak of a related SARS virus, there are some important differences.
 The coronavirus, while capable of killing someone, appears to be less dangerous than its 2003 cousin. He said people who are most at risk are those with compromised immune systems.
 "These are on a scale which includes something close to the common cold all the way to something like SARS, which can be very severe," Hirji said. "This virus (the coronavirus) is closer to the common cold on that spectrum."
 SARS, which killed 44 people in Toronto in 2003, was "relatively hard to spread," Hirji said. The coronavirus spreads more easily, he added.
 That's why the health department is reinforcing that people practise the same kind of hygiene measures they use to limit spread of the flu — washing hands, coughing into your sleeve and staying home if you are unwell.