Few Americans oppose Trump trade agreement: poll 
 Few Americans say they oppose President Trump Donald John TrumpWarren: Dershowitz presentation 'nonsensical,' 'could not follow it' Bolton told Barr he was concerned Trump did favors for autocrats: report Dershowitz: Bolton allegations would not constitute impeachable offense MORE's signature trade deal, the United States Canada Mexico Agreement (USMCA), but a majority says they have no opinion on the issue, according to a Monmouth University poll released Tuesday.

While just 5 percent of those surveyed said they disapprove of the deal, 61 percent of respondents said they have no opinion on the USMCA, which Trump is expected to sign on Wednesday.

Thirty-three percent of those surveyed said they approved of the deal.

Republicans were more likely to approve of the deal, with 54 percent saying they favored the agreement, compared to 29 percent of independents and 24 percent of Democrats.

After Trump agreed to an initial deal in 2018, Congressional Democrats spent a year fighting for concessions on labor enforcement, environmental standards, and pharmaceuticals, even winning over the support of AFL-CIO union for the final agreement.

The issue could percolate in the Democratic primary. Sen. Bernie Sanders Bernie SandersGOP Iowa senator suggests Trump impeachment defense could hurt Biden at caucuses On The Money: Stocks close with steep losses driven by coronavirus fears | Tax season could bring more refund confusion | Trump's new wins for farmers may not undo trade damage Sanders launches first TV ads in Nevada MORE (I-Vt.) was the only Senator running for the nomination to vote against the deal.

Still, free trade remains broadly popular. The poll found that 57 percent of Americans think free trade agreements with other countries are good for the United States, an uptick of 5 points since 2018. Just 10 percent say the agreements are bad, while 29 percent said they have no opinion.

The telephone poll among U.S. adults had 903 respondents and a margin of error of plus or minus 3.3 percentage points. It was conducted from January 16-20.