Massey's links with Wuhan closely monitored after virus outbreak 
 Travellers wearing face masks exit the arrivals hall at Auckland International Airport as fears about the coronavirus outbreak spread.

The plans of dozens of Chinese students expecting to travel to Massey University campuses in Palmerston North, Auckland and Wellington could be disrupted by the coronavirus outbreak.

The university was expecting between 50 and 70 students from the outbreak epicentre of Wuhan to come to New Zealand this academic year.

As well, a group of 15 students was expecting to attend a 21-day programme in Palmerston North in February.

Asked whether any students from Wuhan had already visited the city since the virus' outbreak, a university spokeswoman said Massey had nothing more to say.

READ MORE:

 * Coronavirus cases highly likely to arrive in NZ, health officials say as they seek extra quarantine powers

 * China arrivals to be checked by health staff amid coronavirus outbreak

 * Students from Wuhan expected to visit NZ amid coronavirus outbreak

The university says on its website that discussions are under way about changes or postponements that might be required, based on public health advice.

No cases among university staff or students had been notified so far.

Massey has partnerships with Wuhan University, Huazhong Agricultural University and Qingdao University, and education agencies based in Wuhan.

The Massey spokeswoman said the institution was taking steps to ensure staff and students were aware of the health emergency and related risks.

"This is a constantly evolving situation. The university has convened a working group to monitor the situation, work through the logistics and ensure everyone has the information they need and that appropriate actions are taken.

"The wellbeing of our students and staff is our top priority."

Massey had alerted the relevant public health organisations in Auckland, Wellington and Palmerston North to ensure staff were aware to watch for symptoms if the coronavirus appeared in any of the three regions.

Information about the virus, its symptoms and the risks of exposure would feature in international orientation week, starting on February 17.

Meanwhile, the MidCentral District Health Board has begun providing Ministry of Health information for the public on its website.

Posters were being sent out to hospitals, general practices and clinics providing visitors with basic information about the virus and its symptoms.

It typically causes respiratory infection, with flu-like symptoms, which were mild in some people, but could make others extremely unwell.

Think Hauora chief executive Chiquita Hansen said the primary health organisation had a pandemic plan ready to roll out if required, and would be following the lead of the ministry and public health officials in responding when needed.