Chinese wives and husbands BANNED from boarding US rescue flight out of infected Wuhan as death toll mounts 
 A US dad refused to abandon his wife and child in Coronavirus hot spot Wuhan - as Chinese spouses are banned from US rescue flight.

Benjamin Wilson, who lives there with his Chinese wife and seven-year-old daughter, won't be on the chartered flight today as the death toll rises to 106.

"I would consider sending my daughter, if that were an option," the Louisiana man told the Wall Street Journal.

"But I wouldn't leave my wife. But if my wife and daughter could travel together, then absolutely yes."

The plane will carry American citizens out of Wuhan Tianhe International Airport to San Francisco International Airport today.

Last week, the US consulate reached out to Americans living in the city to offer them a seat on the plane.

Vermont native Priscilla Dickie told the publication she booked a seat with her daughter, 8, but getting to the airport was an issue.

Former University of Cincinnati quarterback Jarred Evans expecting to board the emergency evacuation flight home.

Doug Perez, 28, from San Francisco was barred from leaving his apartment compound yesterday.

He is staying in Wuhan rather than leaving his girlfriend and their adorable Labrador called "Chubby."

"A lot of foreigners are stuck here," he told the WSJ. "There is no way on Earth many of us, including myself, are going to leave our loved ones."

One American citizen's daughter said her dad wouldn't be flying because he feared other passengers would infect him "potentially bringing it back to us."

On Sunday, Scott Allis from Pennsylvania posted on Facebook saying he had "applied for a seat."

"I haven't been informed that I will definitely have a place on this flight," he said, while others were happy to stay put.

"US citizens are finally being contacted, only so many can go," wrote US citizen Dr. Diana Adama said Monday.

"The rest of us staying here and are giving up seats to let children go with their mothers."

The State Department released a statement saying they were making arrangements to send personnel home from Wuhan.

A "limited capacity" flight will leave Wuhan Tianhe International Airport on January 28 and head to California.

Passengers can book and board on a "reimbursable basis" with priority given to those at a greater risk of contracting the virus.

They will be quarantined and screened upon arrival after the virus sickened more than 2,800 people in at least 14 countries and five confirmed cases in the US.

The US Embassy said the plane will make a refueling stop in Alaska before flying on to Ontario, California, where passengers will be screened.

A Japanese-chartered Boeing 767 departed for Wuhan to fly out its citizens, the first of two possible flights.

South Korea also said it will send a plane to the city in central China.

Japan, France, Mongolia and other governments are also preparing to evacuate diplomats from the viral epicenter.

China tried to contain the spread by suspending transport links to Wuhan - a city of 11 million residents in the middle of China.

So far, this has expanded to 17 cities - trapping around 50 million people in one of the most drastic disease control measures.

The Chinese government extended the Lunar New Year holiday by three days to keep people confined in their homes.

The "devil" coronavirus is now beginning to spread between people who haven't visited China, experts have warned.

While Americans have been urged to avoid traveling to the area, Mongolia closed its vast border with China.

Hong Kong and Malaysia are barring visitors from the Hubei province as Asian stocks plummet as a result of the outbreak.

The National Health Commission said a whopping 1,771 new cases were confirmed yesterday, raising the national total to 4,515,

More than 45 cases have been confirmed around the world mostly involving Chinese tourists or Wuhan visitors.

There are confirmed in the United States, Thailand, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Nepal, France, Canada, Sri Lanka and Australia.

Five US patients have been diagnosed in Washington state, Chicago, Southern California and Arizona - with a suspected case in Philadelphia.

Health officials are testing 110 potential carries in 26 states as of January 27 as the killer virus continues to spread.

Chinese authorities believe the outbreak stemmed from people eating animals like bats and koalas at Huanan Seafood Market in Wuhan.

Do you have a story for The US Sun team?

Email us at exclusive@the-sun.com or call 212 416 4552.