Coronavirus: a doctor’s-eye view on the public health threat 
 Last week, like millions of others, I found myself reading about the emergence of a new virulent strain of coronavirus in a Chinese city I’d never heard of. It seemed comfortably far away, and reassuringly foreign.That changed this week, when I found myself standing in a respiratory isolation room, wearing a gown, gloves, a mask and eye protection, taking a detailed medical history from a young Chinese graduate student who had recently returned from an extended trip home. She’d developed a cough and a fever after arriving back in Albuquerque, N.M., for the spring semester.This world is indeed a small place. Wuhan and Albuquerque are about as far away from each other as it’s possible to be on Earth. Yet there she was, coughing miserably into her mask, as I stood there like an astronaut.The Ebola outbreaks in West Africa of recent years were frightening and tragic, but ultimately public health experts were not concerned about a pandemic. Ebola is relatively difficult to catch, and so virulent that its spread can be contained, because patients can be quickly identified and isolated. Not so this new coronavirus. Although highly contagious, it has a long incubation period, and the majority of cases are relatively mild.Rather than being reassuring, from a public-health perspective, this is a potential disaster. Many patients will have symptoms indistinguishable from other common viral infections, will never know they are infected, and will thus continue to pass the virus onto others. Great numbers of people could become infected over time.At the moment, much remains to be learned about the new virus. Its true virulence is unclear, and only a few percentage points either way will determine whether this epidemic becomes a catastrophe or a manageable threat.Current strains of influenza, for example, kill roughly 650,00 people around the world every year. Although the overwhelming majority of people with the flu recover in just a few days, a small percentage of patients with influenza develop severe complications. Since hundreds of millions of people get the flu every winter, that small percentage translates into a tragically large number of deaths.The influenza strain of 1918 that killed approximately 50 million people worldwide was much more virulent than the influenza strains of today. But in an emptier world, before commercial air travel, with fewer densely populated cities, humanity was also less vulnerable. Despite the medical advances of the past century, it’s estimated that as many as 100 million people would die if the same 1918 influenza strain were ever to rise again. So far, we’ve been lucky.These are staggering numbers, horrifying numbers. And they explain why the Chinese government has quarantined over 50 million people and is building brand new hospitals with such astonishing speed.We may be lucky this time too. It’s possible that this particular coronavirus is less virulent than feared. It’s possible that an effective vaccine can be developed quickly. It’s possible that the current ferocious containment measures being taken by the Chinese and other governments will work.But it’s also possible that our luck has run out, and we are seeing the beginnings of a global pandemic of the sort that no one alive today has experienced.At the moment, simply too little is known for confident predictions. That will likely change soon, but right now we’re still in the dark. So I looked at that young woman, and thought: I have no idea. Probably it’s just a cold. Probably it’s nothing. But I wasn’t certain, and neither was the Department of Health or the infectious disease specialists I called. They checked the Centers for Disease Control website in Atlanta. The recommendations are changing rapidly, and inevitably lag behind, because data takes time to collect.No, she wasn’t sick enough to be hospitalized. Yes, she’d been in China for many weeks. Yes, she had flown on domestic flights and ridden on buses and trains. No, she was not from Wuhan, had not traveled there or knowingly had contact with anyone who had. But she didn’t have the flu or any other of the common viruses we test for, either, and her symptoms fit perfectly.The CDC recommendations were clear. She did not meet the criteria for the specialized and expensive viral testing that my hospital does not have in any case. Testing, too, must be selective, because resources are limited, and the tests themselves are not yet widely available.So I followed the recommendations and discharged her. I told her to stay at home, and to call us immediately if she got sicker. But as I watched her walk out from a safe distance, with her cough and her fever, wearing her mask, I wondered nonetheless.If there is a larger lesson to be found in the eerie footage of Wuhan’s deserted streets, where the traffic lights keep changing for absent cars, it’s a simple one. It’s a lesson that extends beyond public health, beyond medicine and beyond even science itself.This world is extraordinarily small. Humanity is frail. Nowhere is far away. Our fates are collective, for better and for worse, now more than ever before. Huyler is an emergency medicine physician in Albuquerque. His latest book, White Hot Light, will be published in August.