Coronavirus concerns see Nelson pharmacies run out of face masks 
 China is in the grip of the deadly coronavirus, which has killed more than 100 in mainland China. It has yet to appear in New Zealand.

Tourists worried about the new coronavirus have cleaned out Nelson pharmacies' supplies of face masks, as health officials said the risk of an ongoing outbreak in New Zealand remained low.

A school in the city was following its "pandemic policy" for international students, and the district health board had an incident management team on stand-by - but said neither its pandemic nor health emergency plan were required to be activated as yet.

More than 100 people in China have died from the virus, with the city of Wuhan, thought to be the epicentre, and much of surrounding Hubei province in effective lockdown.

The number of people infected internationally has risen, with new cases in Singapore and Germany.

READ MORE:

 * Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern confirms 53 Kiwis in Wuhan and coronavirus notifiable

 * Coronavirus cases highly likely to arrive in NZ, health officials say as they seek extra quarantine powers

 * Australian government may pull Aussies from coronavirus-hit parts of China

 * China arrivals to be checked by health staff amid coronavirus outbreak

There were no confirmed cases of the coronavirus in New Zealand, at the time of writing on Tuesday afternoon.

The Ministry of Health said the likelihood of New Zealand importing a case was high, but the risk of an ongoing outbreak in New Zealand remained low.

While investigations continued into the origin of the virus, it could be spread through person-to-person contact, according to the World Health Organisation.

China had banned on all outbound group travel, and there were no travel restrictions at the New Zealand border related to the outbreak.

Visitor destination manager at the Nelson Regional Development Agency, Gisela Purcell, believed the risk was "extremely low" of the virus significantly affecting tourism in the Nelson region, or of contamination from tourists.

Chinese visitors made up about five per cent of visitors to the Nelson region, she said.

People about to head overseas, however, were trying to take precautions.

Harley's Pharmacy in the Nelson suburb of Tahunanui said a holidaymaker bought a box of 50 face masks on Monday, cleaning out the shop's supply.

"They wanted the whole box, because they didn't want it to be touched by anyone, they didn't want the masks to be contaminated in any way," retail assistant Renee Thomason said.

About eight tourists, all from Asia, had come in since, wanting face masks, she said.

Life Pharmacy in Nelson City sold out of its supplies of surgical face masks on Sunday, when somebody came into the shop and bought a box of 100.

Most people who had asked for masks were tourists, and Nelsonians didn't appear to be particularly worried about the virus, retail manager Renata Mijatovic-Schrader said.

Apart from selling out of face masks, it was business as usual, she said.

Waimea College Principal Scott Haines says the school has no international students from China, but 41 students were due to arrive from "other affected" countries including Japan, Thailand and South Korea.

Waimea College sent out a letter last week to its partner schools and agencies, asking them to have students' temperatures taken before departing for New Zealand, Haines said.

"We've briefed their home stay families about coronavirus, and we've given them information so that they can monitor the temperature and the health of the students."

The school would make sure it complied with advice it received from Ministry of Education on Tuesday morning, as classes started back on Wednesday.

The email from Secretary for Education at the ministry, Iona Holsted, said the incubation period for the virus was currently considered to be 14 days.

Holsted encouraged schools that had a particular concern about any student or staff member, to urge parents or the staff member to contact Healthline at 0800 611 116 or their GP for medical advice.

"If a student still attends school while showing symptoms, the Principal of a state school can preclude them if they believe on reasonable grounds they may have a communicable disease," Holsted wrote. 

  

 Nelson College said it had "very few" students from mainland China.

Acting principal Tim Tucker said those students lived a long way away from Wuhan, and none of them would board at the school.

The school would continue to follow advice from the Nelson Marlborough Health Board, and liaise with host families with any advice or information coming from the health board, Tucker said.

Nelson Marlborough Institute of Technology said it was monitoring the situation on a daily basis, with students not expected back in at NMIT for a couple of weeks.

Chief executive Liam Sloan said it was a "worrying time", with a large proportion of NMIT's 1400 international students hailing from China.

The institute was keeping in touch with staff at partner universities in China.

"We're worried on a number of fronts. Their wellbeing for one, and the potential impact on our enrolment, given that it's the start of a new academic year.

"Our international market is a key income generator for us, as for other polytechnics."