Coronavirus live updates: Outbreak has killed 106 people and infected nearly 4,700 
 U.S. Health Secretary Alex Azar warned that the coronavirus raging across mainland China is a "potentially very serious public health threat," adding that the Trump administration is expanding screening for the virus from five to 20 U.S. airports. "We are constantly preparing for the possibility that the situation could worsen," Azar said during a press briefing.

Top U.S. health officials and infectious disease specialists have scheduled a press conference Tuesday morning on the . The briefing, hosted by U.S. Health Secretary , is scheduled to start at 11:15 a.m. ET at the agency's headquarters in Washington, D.C. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Robert Redfield will also speak, as well as representatives from the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Disease and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Watch it here.

The White House is considering imposing travel restrictions on China amid the escalating death toll from the coronavirus, sources told CNBC's Eamon Javers on Tuesday. No final decision has been made. A senior staff meeting was held at the White House on Monday during which the restrictions were discussed.

Germany has diagnosed its first confirmed case of the coronavirus after a 33-year-old man contracted it from a colleague visiting his workplace from Shanghai, in one of the first cases of human-to-human transmission outside China, raising concerns about the spread of the flu-like virus. It spreads in droplets from coughs and sneezes and has an incubation period of 1 to 14 days.

The CEO of industrial giant 3M Mike Roman said Tuesday that the company is increasing production of its respiratory protection products, such as masks, to meet demand caused by the outbreak of coronavirus. Roman said on a conference call for 3M's fourth quarter results that the company is raising production around the world to make more of the products.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is telling Americans to avoid all non-essential travel to China, expanding its travel warning from the city of Wuhan to the entire country as the coronavirus outbreak worsens. Last week, the CDC advised against all nonessential travel to Wuhan, the epicenter of the disease's outbreak and where the majority of cases have been reported. The U.S. Department of State on Monday also raised its travel advisory for China from Level 2 to Level 3 asking Americans to "reconsider travel to China due to the novel coronavirus." They added that some areas have "added risk."

The total number of cases of the coronavirus reached 4,682 worldwide with 106 deaths in China, Chinese health authorities said Tuesday. The majority of the cases are in mainland China, where local authorities have quarantined at least 10 major cities. Multiple cases of the virus have been confirmed in Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam, South Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Japan, Australia, France and the United States. Cambodia, Canada, Germany, Nepal and Sri Lanka have each reported one case.

Investment bank Goldman Sachs instructed its staff in mainland China to work from home or stay out of the office for at least two weeks, Reuters reported, citing an internal memo.