FDA warns Purell to stop claiming its hand sanitizers eliminate Ebola and the flu 
 The U.S. Food and Drug Administration sent a warning letter to the maker of Purell this month for inappropriately marketing the hand sanitizer as a way to prevent an array of diseases.

The FDA says GOJO Industries Inc., Purell's parent company, made a series of unverified claims suggesting that over-the-counter hand sanitizer is an effective way of preventing Ebola, MRSA, VRE, norovirus, flu, and Candida auris, according to the Jan. 17 letter. The claims appeared on gojo.com, purell.com and Purell social media accounts.

"FDA is currently not aware of any adequate and well-controlled studies demonstrating that killing or decreasing the number of bacteria or viruses on the skin by a certain magnitude produces a corresponding clinical reduction in infection or disease caused by such bacteria or virus," FDA Director of Compliance Nicholas Lyons said in the letter.

Coronavirus outbreak:Here's how doctors are treating the new deadly virus

The letter also criticized GOJO for claiming that Purell reduces student absenteeism.

On one webpage, GOJO says recent studies found that Purell reduced student absenteeism by 51% and teacher absenteeism by 10%. The FDA, however, said it was "unaware of any adequate and well-controlled clinical trials in the published literature that" supported this conclusion.

"The claims on your product websites suggest that PURELL® Healthcare Advanced Hand Sanitizers are effective in reducing illness or disease-related student and teacher absenteeism also go beyond merely describing the general intended use of a topical antiseptic as set forth in the above-referenced relevant rulemakings," the letter said.

The letter said GOJO is responsible for investigating these violations. It requires GOJO to notify the FDA in writing of specific steps it has taken to correct the violations within 15 working days of receiving the letter.

GOJO released a statement Friday saying that the company had begun updating its websites accordingly.

"GOJO took immediate action to respond to FDA claim requirements," the statement said, adding, "We have begun updating relevant website and other digital content as directed by the FDA and are taking steps to prevent a recurrence."

Ebola:Outbreak in Congo declared an international health emergency by World Health Organization

The FDA's warning comes amid an outbreak of coronavirus that is responsible for more than 100 deaths in China. The new virus has spread to several countries, with five cases identified in the U.S.