Warren releases plan for preventing, containing infectious diseases 
 Sen. Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth Ann WarrenWarren: Dershowitz presentation 'nonsensical,' 'could not follow it' On The Money: Stocks close with steep losses driven by coronavirus fears | Tax season could bring more refund confusion | Trump's new wins for farmers may not undo trade damage Overnight Energy: Sanders scores highest on green group's voter guide | Trump's latest wins for farmers may not undo trade damage | Amazon employees defy company to speak on climate change MORE (D-Mass.), a 2020 White House hopeful, vowed on Tuesday to increase funding for public health programs in response to the coronavirus in China.

Warren's plan would fully fund the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and its pandemic prevention and response programs.

She would also increase funding for grants that help state and local health departments prepare for outbreaks and other public health issues.

Her announcement comes as more than 4,500 cases have been confirmed in China, and five people have tested positive for the illness in the U.S. The CDC is also monitoring 73 possible cases.

Experts note that public health funding has been lagging for years, putting the U.S. at risk for an epidemic.

"Diseases like Ebola virus, Zika virus and most recently, coronavirus demonstrate the real threat that outbreaks pose to our health and security," Warren's campaign wrote in her plan.

"The United States can be a leader in combatting these problems. But to do so, we must invest at home to ensure our public health agencies, hospitals, and health care providers are ready to jump into action when outbreaks strike."

Warren's campaign argues that President Trump Donald John TrumpWarren: Dershowitz presentation 'nonsensical,' 'could not follow it' Bolton told Barr he was concerned Trump did favors for autocrats: report Dershowitz: Bolton allegations would not constitute impeachable offense MORE has deprioritized global health security, pointing to his administration's decision to eliminate a White House position that focused solely on the issue.

If elected president, Warren would also increase funding for global health security to prevent outbreaks before they start in other countries.

"Diseases like coronavirus remind us why we need robust international institutions, strong investments in public health, and a government that is prepared to jump into action at a moment's notice," her plan reads.