Exclusive: The Australian children trapped in Wuhan by the coronavirus 
 Days before school restarts, the ABC confirmed at least 140 Australian children are stuck in the Chinese city of Wuhan.

Caught up in efforts to contain the coronavirus, these young people and their parents seek help to escape a nightmare.

Click HERE to view the story in full interactive mode.

Initially, 2020 was seen as a lucky year — the Lunar New Year would coincide with Australian school holidays.

Dozens of families in the Chinese-Australian community seized the opportunity to return to Wuhan in China for a reunion.

But a global health crisis has hobbled the world's largest annual migration, and now these families are trapped there.

Michael, 3, his brother Kim, 1, and their parents yearn for their Melbourne home.

"Every day the children ask when they can go out," their father told the ABC.

"I don't want my children to experience this. I don't want them traumatised."

But it's not as simple as sending a plane to pick them up.

Some parents are permanent residents who have an older child born in China and a younger sibling who is an Australian citizen.

As consular support is only offered to Australian citizens, some families feel anxious about the Government's evacuation plans.

The ABC understands there are at least 140 Australian children trapped in Wuhan, and others who are permanent residents.

Leo's mother said the five-year-old had never been confined in one place for "such a long time".

"We are physically healthy, but depressed," she said.

Some families are running out of food as nearby shops are closed and transportation options have become limited.

One of the few ways to buy supplies in their neighbourhood is via the WeChat app — that is, if anyone has anything to spare.

The problem will worsen as the lockdown may last months.

Angela, 5, her sister Bella, 2, and their mother are waiting for the Australian Government to evacuate them from Wuhan.

"All we want is to send our kids home safely," their mother said.

Michael, 5, travelled to Wuhan to visit his grandparents.

"I didn't meet them for three years. My sister is too young to join us, we will bring her here next time," the boy said.

With the outbreak worsening, parents are pleading with Australian authorities to bring their children home.

They are desperate to hear about an evacuation plan.

Isabella, 7, her younger brother Lanbert and their mother flew from Sydney to Wuhan to celebrate Lunar New Year.

"We feel so close to death, when we read about the death toll increasing everyday," their mother said.

"The situation is getting crazy, we are burning with anxiety, knowing that our children are in danger. Rescue our children."

Colin's grandparents are looking after him while his parents work in Sydney.

"Can the Government please ask the Chinese authorities to allow me to go to Wuhan?" his father asked.

Talia, 3, and Dylan, 4, from Melbourne, have been confined to their apartment for a week.

"We cannot afford any risk of getting sick, given that medical resources in Wuhan are being exhausted," their mother said.