Coronavirus live updates: Ontario parents petition schools to ‘quarantine’ students whose families travelled to China 
 As Canada waits for its second case of novel coronavirus to be officially confirmed, parents north of Toronto are circulating a petition online urging schools to ask some students to stay home for 17 days of “self-quarantine.”

“The school should keep tracking status of the students who recently travelled to China (not just Wuhan, any city of China),” the petition reads. “Other parents of the class should have the right to know whether there are students in the class came back from China recently, and have the right to decide whether to keep their kids at home.”

The board chair and director of education of York Region District School Board wrote that such requests run the risk of “demonstrating bias and racism,” even when made in the name of safety.

A Toronto man is the first Canadian to contract the new coronavirus and his wife is presumed to be the second. Health officials in Ontario are investigating 11 other people suspected, but not confirmed, to have the virus. As of Tuesday, 106 people in China have died — most in and around Wuhan — from the novel coronavirus and the total number of confirmed cases has nearly doubled since Monday, from 2,835 to 4,515.

Germany is the first country to report human-to-human transmission of the coronavirus in Europe. Russia has closed its border with China amid fears of the virus spreading, though there are no reports coming from Russia.

Follow along below for live updates on the coronavirus outbreak from around the world and Canada:

Read more about the Wuhan coronavirus:

Damned if you, damned if you don’t: How well have we responded to the coronavirus threat? The answer is complicated

There is a website that tracks and displays the spread of the coronavirus in real time

Airport screening for viruses is back, despite post-SARS study that found it to be of little use

Canadian coronavirus patient had symptoms on flight back from China, but was allowed to go home: officials