Is this the new Grumpy Cat? 
 Lock up your litterboxes—there's a new Grumpy Cat in town. Meow Meow, a cat from Taiwan, has a striking resemblance to the beloved original Grumpy Cat, who sadly passed away in May 2019.

Appearing on Instagram a day ago, the long-haired feline has already struck the hearts of many users because of her resemblance to the well-loved internet sensation.

The "original" Grumpy Cat, real name Tardar Sauce, became an internet sensation after her photo was posted on Reddit on September 22, 2012. According to her official website, it had been suggested that the photo was doctored, so her owners took to sharing videos of her on YouTube. The rest is meme history. Grumpy Cat's petite size and sour expression were due to feline dwarfism.

Grumpy Cat died in the arms of her owner, Tabatha Bundesen, due to complications from a urinary tract infection. Her death was announced in a post captioned: "Some days are grumpier than others..."

But now it seems that Grumpy Cat's legacy can live in the form of Meow Meow, whose owner, named Clare, describes her as looking angry "but is sweet". According to Bored Panda, Meow Meow met her owner when she was 10 months old in an old pet shop after she had been abandoned. Interestingly, it is thought Meow Meow was born before Grumpy Cat, making us wonder who is the original grump of the cat world.

Even though she has only been on Instagram for a day, Meow Meow has already acquired 2,100 followers. She also has what her owner describes as a "Batman mark," referring to the bat-shaped markings on her face.

In her first posts, Meow Meow has already talked about keeping her cool during hyperthyroidism treatment and subsequent quarantine, posting: "When I stayed in the hospital for hyperthyroidism treatment and quarantine, I still kelp my elegant. Have a lovely day and stay safe from the Coronavirus! Everyone".

She also took to the social media platform to complain about the weather: "I am not a fan of humidity unless I am close to nice clear water to swim in. It's raining again. Talk to the paw".

The feline also has a touching back story. According to Cat Reporter, Meow Meow's owner Clare quit her job and took a mortgage loan on her house when the cat became sick. She researched how to get her beloved cat from Taiwan over to the U.S. for treatment, which resulted in a lot of paperwork. They both live in Portland, Oregon, according to Meow Meow's Instagram.

Newsweek has contacted Meow Meow and Clare to find out more about their plans for the fur-ture.