Hong Kong halts trains from mainland China as coronavirus death toll tops 100 
 Officials in Hong Kong announced Tuesday that all rail links to mainland China will be suspended, an unprecedented move to contain the spread of a deadly infection outbreak that has sickened more 4,500 people since the virus was discovered last month.Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam said high-speed and regular trains, all ferries and half of scheduled flights would be cut Friday to “consolidate" the number of entry points between China and the semi-autonomous territory. “So that again will hopefully reduce passenger flow and achieve the outcome of drastically limiting the people or the population mobility between the two places," she said at a news conference Tuesday while wearing a surgical mask.The announcement comes as the U.S. and other countries prepare to evacuate their citizens from Wuhan, the Chinese city at the center of the outbreak. The vast majority of cases and all 106 deaths related to the pneumonia-like virus have been reported in and around central China’s Hubei province, where Wuhan is located. In the U.S., where five travel-related cases have been confirmed, federal health officials held their own news conference Tuesday morning to discuss their response to the outbreak.“Americans should know that this is a potentially very serious public health threat,” Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar told reporters. “But at this point, Americans should not worry for their safety.”Authorities insisted Tuesday that there’s no evidence the virus is spreading in any U.S. community, noting that all five U.S. patients diagnosed with the virus so far had traveled to Wuhan. Azar added, however, that more cases will emerge in the country as health professionals across 26 U.S. states investigate more than 110 possible cases this week.Chinese officials believe the viral infection originated from contact with animals at a large seafood market in Wuhan, but the virus has since been spreading from human to human.The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued a Level 4 alert Monday urging Americans not to travel to Hubei and a Level 3 alert for those traveling to any part of China, urging travelers to exercise “increased caution" and avoid contact with animals and sick people.U.S. officials also announced Tuesday that the number of airports screening travelers returning from Hubei will go from five to 20 this week.China has shut down public transportation in Wuhan and 16 other cities, essentially trapping more than 50 million people, in a desperate attempt to contain the outbreak.One key problem with dealing with the crisis is how little is known about the newly discovered infection, which Azar said is not the same as SARS, another type of coronavirus that originated in China and spread to more than a dozen other countries, killing about 800 people in the early 2000s.U.S. officials said a vaccine will likely enter a Phase 1 trial within the next three months, though it would take several more months until one is available.