Dramatic moment hazmat medics quarantine 'coronavirus patient' in Birmingham 
 THIS is the dramatic moment hazmat medics were forced to quarantine a suspected coronavirus patient in Birmingham - hours after he was sent home from the GP.

A terrified woman captured masked paramedics treating neighbour Drew Bennett, feared to have the killer bug yesterday after flying back from Wuhan.

8

 A paramedic in a full hazmat suit was seen on a Birmingham residential street
8

 Drew Bennett said he had returned from Wuhan - the epicentre of the Cronavirus outbreak - on December 31Credit: BPM Media
She posted the clip online, writing: "What have I just witnessed outside my flat in harborne #coronavirus."

Panicked pals urged her to "stay indoors", and said "doesn't look too good" and "testing for the virus I suspect".

Then Drew, 31, revealed he was the one bundled into an ambulance yesterday by worried medics.

Earlier in the day he had been sent home from the doctors after suffering what he thought was a serious bout of flu, after returning from China.

An ambulance later arrived and took him to hospital, where he was put into isolation.

He said: "When I went to the GP on Monday and he asked as a precaution if I had been to China, he seemed really concerned.

"I was sent home and before I knew it, ambulances and people in hazmat suits had turned up.

"I'm now in isolation at the QE and just waiting to get my blood test results.

"I don't feel particularly unwell now, but I've not been 100 per cent since returning from Wuhan.

CONTAMINATION FEARS

"Since I got over the worst symptoms I've been back to work, shopping, just normal life.

"It's a really worrying time and not a nice experience."

Drew, who works in sales, was taken to hospital at around 4.20pm on Monday.

The video, watched by more than 139,000 people, shows a paramedic in full protective clothing, guiding a masked person into the back of an ambulance.

Another medic is seen wearing a mask, but bizarrely another paramedic in shot doesn't appear to have any protective items of clothing.

A West Midlands Ambulance Service spokesman directed The Sun Online to the Department of Health for comment.

And a spokeswoman there wouldn't comment on this case, but confirmed that as of 2pm today 97 tests for coronavirus have taken place in the UK - suggesting this patient was also tested.

Until the tests confirmed the patient did not have the virus, paramedics were taking precautions against the contagious bug.

No positive tests for UK patients have been reported so far, but this video and the hundreds of comments on it shows the extent of the fear it will hit Britain soon.

I was sent home and before I knew it, ambulances and people in hazmat suits had turned up. I'm now in isolation at the QE and just waiting to get my blood test results.
Drew Bennett

One worried person commented: "So the ambulance drivers are not even wearing protective clothing yet do get rather close to the patient? Is the U.K. really prepared? I think not!"

And another said: "Invest in hand sanitisers, lysol and face masks! Stay safe!"

It comes as all recent passengers arriving in the UK from Wuhan in China were ordered to "stay at home" - even if they feel well.

Any Brits evacuated from Wuhan, the centre of the deadly outbreak, in the coming days will also be asked to self-quarantine for at least two weeks.

The warning from health secretary Matt Hancock comes amid fears the lethal coronavirus that's killed at least 81, is more contagious than previously thought.

Scientists warn there is evidence the virus can be transmitted even if the carrier has no symptoms, such as a fever or cough.

8

 The new strain of coronavirus, 2019-nCoV, causes symptoms that may start as a cold and eventually end up developing into pneumonia
What is coronavirus?


Coronavirus is an airborne virus, spread in a similar way to colds and the flu.

The virus attacks the respiratory system, causing lung lesions.

Symptoms include a runny nose, headache, cough and fever, shortness of breath, chills and body aches.

It is incredibly contagious and is spread through contact with anything the virus is on as well as infected breath, coughs or sneezes.

Symptoms include a runny nose, headache, cough and fever, shortness of breath, chills and body aches.

In most cases, you won't know whether you have a coronavirus or a different cold-causing virus, such as rhinovirus.

But if a coronavirus infection spreads to the lower respiratory tract (your windpipe and your lungs), it can cause pneumonia, especially in older people, people with heart disease or people with weakened immune systems.

There is no vaccine for coronavirus.

In 2003 an outbreak of a similar virus, SARS, infected more than 8,000 people in 37 countries before it was brought under control, killing 800 of those worldwide.




Ministers want all 1,500 people who have flown in from Wuhan since mid-January to remain indoors and limit contact with others for at least a fortnight.

But officials admit only one in ten has so far been tracked down - making it harder to enforce the proposed lockdown.

Public health bosses were accused of wrongly telling carriers arriving from China that they didn't need testing for the flu-like illness.

England's chief medical officer Professor Chris Whitty said there was a "fair chance" cases would emerge in Britain as the overall number reported around the world climbed to about 2,744 including 80 deaths, which have all occurred in China.

Last night, it emerged that suspected coronavirus carriers who have arrived from China in recent days were reportedly only tested if they had "the sniffles".

YOU MUST BE SKIDDING
 6in of snow  black ice create 'no go areas' in -6.6C DEEP FREEZE 

'the final whistle'
 Tributes to Nicholas Parsons as Sale of the Century host dies aged 96 

NEVER FORGET HER FACE
 This girl, 14, was killed with an injection to the heart in Auschwitz 

HELL ON EARTH
 Chilling pictures reveal horrors of Hitler's evil Auschwitz camp 75 years on 

BEAST CAGED
 Nicki Minaj's brother gets 25 years to life in jail for raping stepdaughter, 11 







Reports emerged after the Chinese government announced on Sunday that infected people can spread the virus for up to two weeks before showing any symptoms.

A senior NHS source told the newspaper that patients who called the 111 service had not been offered tests unless they showed signs of the virus.

They said: “Our specialists followed the official advice from Public Health England to the letter."

8

 The Birmingham man was bundled into an ambulance after reporting he had been feeling unwellCredit: BPM Media
8

 A possible suspected patient was seen getting into an ambulance wearing a mask
8

 Other paramedics were seen wearing masks, although one appeared to not be wearing any protective clothing
8

 An ambulance worker in a protective suit is seen getting into the cab after tending to a patient in Woodseer Street, Spitalfields, east LondonCredit: Triangle News
8

 Thumbs up from a patient for well-protected team at a hospital in Wuhan

Coronavirus chaos as Government doesn't know how many British nationals are stranded in 'ground zero Wuhan'