CDC Offers China Help As Coronavirus Outbreak Grows, According To Report 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar speaks during a press conference on coronavirus ... [+] Tuesday in Washington, DC. 
Photo by Samuel Corum/Getty ImagesTopline: The Washington Post reported Tuesday that Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) Alexander Azar offered China a team from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to help with the growing coronavirus outbreak, but China has not yet accepted.
China’s death toll has risen to 106 and has over 4,600 reported cases of infection.
Azar said in a Tuesday press conference that he spoke with China minister of health Ma Xiaowei and repeated the offer to send a CDC team, which he said was first extended January 6.
“We are urging China that more cooperation and transparency are the most important steps you can take toward a more effective response,” said Azar.
U.S. health officials want more samples of the virus from infected people, Azar said, to increase understanding of how it is transmitted and to help develop vaccines and tests to detect it.
The CDC told travelers Monday to avoid all nonessential travel to China, and as of Tuesday, health officials have not enacted further restrictions, but indicated they are an option.
Hong Kong announced earlier on Tuesday that it restricted travel to mainland China by closing cross border railways and ferry services and limiting flights.

Key background: The outbreak began in early December 2019 in Wuhan, China, and has continued to spread. Early reports suggest the disease originated from a seafood market in Wuhan. On Sunday, Ma Xiaowei, head of China’s National Health Commission, warned the virus could become even more dangerous because it is contagious during incubation—the period between when a person is infected and when symptoms present themselves. 
News peg: Chinese officials have locked down Wuhan and several surrounding cities, blocking access to roads, public transportation and airports in an attempt quarantine the region before the disease spreads further. The unprecedented shutdown has affected millions of people in China’s Hubei province.