Australians told to reconsider all travel to China as coronavirus spreads 
 Australians are being advised to reconsider all travel to China following the coronavirus outbreak that has killed more than 100 people, spread across the world and rattled financial markets.

Foreign Minister Marise Payne said early on Wednesday morning that updated travel advice on the Smartraveller website now advised Australians to "reconsider your need to travel to China overall", and "do not travel to Hubei Province", the epicentre of the virus outbreak.

"Chinese authorities have restricted travel for parts of the country and may extend these restrictions at short notice," the updated Smartraveller advice says.

"Travellers may be quarantined, due to their health condition or previous location."

READ MORE:

 * Massey's links with Wuhan closely monitored after virus outbreak

 * We're much more vulnerable to the spread of viruses than we once were 

 * Hong Kong cuts rail links to China to curb coronavirus

 * Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern confirms 53 Kiwis in Wuhan and 'very difficult' to bring home

Australian consular officials will arrive in Hubei province as early as Wednesday to work on a plan to evacuate hundreds of Australians there.

Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern confirmed there were 53 New Zealanders registered as being in Wuhan and about 20 of them had sought assistance.

Ardern says extracting Kiwis from Wuhan will be "very difficult", but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (Mfat) has confirmed it is exploring evacuation options, including assisted departure by the Defence Force.

Officials were not aware of any Kiwis showing the flu-like symptom, she said.

Evacuating Kiwis was not a simple, straightforward exercise with the militarily enforced lockdowns but the Government was having ongoing conversations, she said.

The United States and several other nations are preparing to airlift citizens out of Wuhan, while Hong Kong have cut all rail links to mainland China and halved the number of flights.

It came as Chinese President Xi Jinping said on Tuesday that China was sure of defeating the "devil" coronavirus. Despite his confidence, international alarm was rising.

From France to Japan, governments were organising evacuations, while Hong Kong - the scene of anti-China unrest for months - planned to suspend rail and ferry links with the mainland.

Among countries pulling nationals out of Wuhan, the central city of 11 million people, the US Embassy in Beijing said a chartered plane would pick up its consular staff on Wednesday.

World Health Organisation (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and Xi met in Beijing to discuss how to protect Chinese and foreigners in areas affected by the virus and "possible" evacuation alternatives, a WHO spokesman said.

"The virus is a devil and we cannot let the devil hide," state television quoted Xi as saying.

"China will strengthen international cooperation and welcomes the WHO participation in virus prevention ... China is confident of winning the battle against the virus."