The Hill's 12:30 Report: Trump lawyers to offer closing arguments on day 7 
 To view past editions of The Hill's 12:30 Report, click here: http://bit.ly/1M1mIfw

To receive The Hill's 12:30 Report in your inbox, please sign up here: http://bit.ly/1Tt4hqN

--> A midday take on what's happening in politics and how to have a sense of humor about it.*

The Hill's 12:30 Report: Trump lawyers to offer closing arguments on day 7 | Senators prep for question time | Latest Bolton fallout | McConnell struggles to unify GOP | Republican says Senate should get Bolton manuscript | Trump to unveil Mideast peace plan | Bloomberg passes Buttigieg in national poll | UK bucks Trump to allow Huawei in 5G network | Trump asks 'what the hell has happened' to Fox News | Trump rally in New Jersey tonight

McConnell trying to keep his party united like...:

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Addison (Mitch) Mitchell McConnellRepublicans show little enthusiasm for impeachment witness swap Overnight Health Care — Presented by Philip Morris International — CDC, State Department warn against travel to China | Biden says Trump left US unprepared for epidemic | Justices allow Trump 'public charge' rule to move forward Progressive group targeting vulnerable GOP senators on impeachment witnesses MORE (R-Ky.) is struggling to keep Republicans united following the New York Times report of former national security adviser John Bolton John BoltonWarren: Dershowitz presentation 'nonsensical,' 'could not follow it' Bolton told Barr he was concerned Trump did favors for autocrats: report Dershowitz: Bolton allegations would not constitute impeachable offense MORE's manuscript. http://bit.ly/2RUsxbb

Why: There are growing calls for Bolton and other witnesses to testify, which would prolong the trial.

Back story: Here's the New York Times bombshell report that threw the debate over witnesses into disarray. "Trump Tied Ukraine Aid to Inquiries He Sought, Bolton Book Says" https://nyti.ms/38F9kRJ

HOW THE BOLTON MANUSCRIPT HAS THE POTENTIAL TO UPEND THE TRIAL:

THIS IS THE MOST DIPLOMATIC ANALYSIS -- EVERYONE'S A WINNER!:

Via Politico's Jake Sherman, Sen. Joe Manchin Joseph (Joe) ManchinThe Hill's Morning Report - Report of Bolton tell-all manuscript roils Trump defense Democrats Manchin, Jones signal they're undecided on Trump removal vote Schiff sparks blowback with head on a 'pike' line MORE (D-W.Va.) commented on the trial: "I think everyone's done a good job so far. On both sides." http://bit.ly/2t8HQ7W

This a.m. -- a GOP senator wants to see Bolton's manuscript:

Sen. James Lankford James Paul LankfordDemocrats, Republicans tussle over witnesses as vote approaches Republican senator: Trump's Schiff tweet not a 'death threat' Sunday shows - Spotlight shifts to Trump tweet, Senate trial witnesses MORE (R-Okla.) said the White House should give a copy of former national security adviser Bolton's memoir to senators. http://bit.ly/2vu0rMx

Lankford said in a Facebook video: "I am encouraging the White House, anybody that I can talk to, to say: That manuscript is pertinent, and we should get access to that manuscript to see what they're actually saying."

Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer Charles (Chuck) Ellis SchumerMeadows: Republicans who break with Trump could face political repercussions Bolton book alleges Trump tied Ukraine aid freeze to Biden investigations: NYT Trump legal team offers brisk opening defense of president MORE (D-N.Y.) dismissed a proposal from moderate Sen. Pat Toomey Patrick (Pat) Joseph ToomeyNSA improperly collected US phone records in October, new documents show Overnight Defense: Pick for South Korean envoy splits with Trump on nuclear threat | McCain blasts move to suspend Korean military exercises | White House defends Trump salute of North Korean general WH backpedals on Trump's 'due process' remark on guns MORE (R-Pa.) to allow both former national security adviser John Bolton and Hunter Biden testify as witnesses in the impeachment trial. http://bit.ly/37BchCL

In Schumer's words: "There's always a diversion. Hunter Biden has nothing to do with the facts of this trial."

It's Tuesday. I'm Cate Martel with a quick recap of the morning and what's coming up. Send comments, story ideas and events for our radar to cmartel@thehill.com -- and follow along on Twitter @CateMartel and Facebook.

Did someone forward this to you? Want your own copy? Sign up here to receive The Hill's 12:30 Report in your inbox daily: http://bit.ly/2kjMNnn

The Senate impeachment trial is about to begin for the last day of arguments from President Trump Donald John TrumpWarren: Dershowitz presentation 'nonsensical,' 'could not follow it' Bolton told Barr he was concerned Trump did favors for autocrats: report Dershowitz: Bolton allegations would not constitute impeachable offense MORE's defense team.

When the trial begins: 1 p.m. EST, as per usual. Livestream: https://cs.pn/37A44Pc

Today is the last day for President Trump's lawyers to present their defense. Here's a preview: http://bit.ly/2Rz0SO8

WHEN THE TRUMP TEAM FINISHES -- WE MOVE TO THE QUESTIONNING PORTION OF THE PROGRAM:

Senators will have 16 hours to question the House impeachment managers and President Trump's defense team. http://bit.ly/310C9W5

For context: "Senators filed more than 150 questions during the 1999 Clinton impeachment trial, using two days to work through the pile. Only one question in that trial came from a bipartisan pair of senators: Sens. Susan Collins Susan Margaret Collins Meadows: Bolton manuscript leaked 'to manipulate' senators over witness vote Trump team doubles down despite Bolton bombshell Progressive group targeting vulnerable GOP senators on impeachment witnesses MORE (R-Maine) and Russ Feingold (D-Wis.)."

But that's MY channel. MY CHANNEL.:

This morning, President Trump slammed Fox News after an interview with Democratic Sen. Chris Van Hollen Christopher (Chris) Van HollenSteyer would have owed M more in taxes under lawmakers' proposal: liberal group Democrats step up pressure over witnesses after Bolton bombshell Fox's Napolitano: There is 'ample and uncontradicted' evidence supporting Trump's removal from office MORE (Md.) and predicted it would be "the beginning of the end" for the network. http://bit.ly/36xF7T5

He tweeted: "Really pathetic how @FoxNews is trying to be so politically correct by loading the airwaves with Democrats like Chris Van Hollen, the no name Senator from Maryland. He has been on forever playing up the Impeachment Hoax. Dems wouldn't even give Fox their low ratings debates..." http://bit.ly/37BhY3l

He then added: "So, what the hell has happened to @FoxNews. Only I know! Chris Wallace and others should be on Fake News CNN or MSDNC. How's Shep Smith doing? Watch, this will be the beginning of the end for Fox, just like the other two which are dying in the ratings. Social Media is great!" http://bit.ly/36ySMt9

I have a plan for that!:

On Jerusalem: "Under this vision, Jerusalem will remain Israel’s undivided, [that’s] very important, undivided capital."

From Trump: “We will form a joint committee with Israel to convert the conceptual map into a more detailed and calibrated rendering so that recognition can be immediately achieved.”

Unrelated, but — Trump also called out Secretary of State Mike Pompeo Michael (Mike) Richard PompeoState Department removes NPR reporter from Pompeo trip Overnight Defense: US military jet crashes in Afghanistan | Rocket attack hits US embassy in Baghdad | Bolton bombshell rocks impeachment trial Please stop calling the impeachment proceeding a trial — it's a charade MORE: “That’s impressive. That was very impressive. That reporter couldn’t have done too good of a job on you yesterday. Think you did a good job on her, actually,” Trump said of Pompeo's clash with an NPR reporter. Back story: https://politi.co/2TZoVr

ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL

Bloomberg surpassed Buttigieg in a new national poll -- say what now?:

Twelve percent of Democratic presidential primary voters support former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg Michael Rubens BloombergSteyer would have owed M more in taxes under lawmakers' proposal: liberal group Majority sees no ties between business experience and political success Fifth congressional Democrat backs Bloomberg in 2020 race MORE, according to a new Morning Consult poll. http://bit.ly/2RPzREU

Former Vice President Joe Biden Joe BidenWarren: Dershowitz presentation 'nonsensical,' 'could not follow it' Bolton told Barr he was concerned Trump did favors for autocrats: report Dershowitz: Bolton allegations would not constitute impeachable offense MORE: 29 percent support

Sen. Bernie Sanders Bernie SandersGOP Iowa senator suggests Trump impeachment defense could hurt Biden at caucuses On The Money: Stocks close with steep losses driven by coronavirus fears | Tax season could bring more refund confusion | Trump's new wins for farmers may not undo trade damage Sanders launches first TV ads in Nevada MORE (I-Vt.): 23 percent

Sen. Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth Ann WarrenWarren: Dershowitz presentation 'nonsensical,' 'could not follow it' On The Money: Stocks close with steep losses driven by coronavirus fears | Tax season could bring more refund confusion | Trump's new wins for farmers may not undo trade damage Overnight Energy: Sanders scores highest on green group's voter guide | Trump's latest wins for farmers may not undo trade damage | Amazon employees defy company to speak on climate change MORE (D-Mass.): 14 percent

Mayor Pete Buttigieg Peter (Pete) Paul ButtigiegOvernight Energy: Sanders scores highest on green group's voter guide | Trump's latest wins for farmers may not undo trade damage | Amazon employees defy company to speak on climate change Sanders surges to first in New Hampshire: poll Majority sees no ties between business experience and political success MORE: 7 percent

Businessman Andrew Yang Andrew YangOvernight Energy: Sanders scores highest on green group's voter guide | Trump's latest wins for farmers may not undo trade damage | Amazon employees defy company to speak on climate change Majority sees no ties between business experience and political success Sanders scores highest on green group's voter guide MORE: 5 percent

Sen. Amy Klobuchar Amy Jean KlobucharOvernight Energy: Sanders scores highest on green group's voter guide | Trump's latest wins for farmers may not undo trade damage | Amazon employees defy company to speak on climate change Sanders surges to first in New Hampshire: poll Majority sees no ties between business experience and political success MORE (D-Minn.): 3 percent

Via The Hill's Reid Wilson and Ashley Perks, here's a look at the Iowa Caucuses, mapped out: http://bit.ly/2uIFUDj

Latest with the coronavirus -- the death toll exceeds 100:

Via The New York Times, "The outbreak of the mysterious new coronavirus is rapidly spreading, the Chinese authorities said on Tuesday, as the official account of known cases jumped nearly 60 percent overnight and the death toll exceeded 100 for the first time." https://nyti.ms/2Gu5Ntx

Via The Hill's Maggie Miller, the United Kingdom decided to allow Chinese telecommunications group Huawei to be a part of its 5G network, ignoring President Trump's calls for Huawei to be banned. http://bit.ly/2GxgEme

Details: "The [United Kingdom's National Security Council (NSC)] said it would allow a presence of 'no more than 35 percent' of equipment from high risk vendors like Huawei, which is one of the largest telecom equipment providers in the world, in peripheral networks."

Why the U.S. wants Huawei to be banned: Fears of Chinese spying.

The House and Senate are in. President Trump is in Washington, D.C. and is heading to Wildwood, N.J. for a campaign rally. Vice President Pence is in Madison, Wis.

1 p.m. EST: The Senate meets to continue the impeachment trial. The Senate's full schedule today: http://bit.ly/30Zt5AE

2 – 3:30 p.m. EST: First and last votes in the House. The House's full schedule today: http://bit.ly/2Gxd7Es

NOW FOR THE FUN STUFF...

For the "Schitt's Creek" fans in the room:



 Here's a montage of 'Schitt's Creek' character Alexis saying "David." Watch -- I'm loling: http://bit.ly/2O6HTIN

And because you made it this far, here's a dog and a cat who have the best friendship: http://bit.ly/37B8BRg