Las Vegas Sands Stock Could Bounce Back 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	It’s no secret that travel stocks have experienced a sharp sell-off in the past week as concerns over the coronavirus continue to rock Wall Street, and Las Vegas Sands (LVS) has been no exception. The security has taken a roughly 13% dive since its Jan. 17 peak just above the $74 region. LVS appears to be in recovery mode today, though, along with the broader market, but not before pulling back to its 160-day trendline, which according to a study from Schaeffer’s Senior Quantitative Analyst Rocky White, has meant more upside for LVS in the past. 
White’s modeling shows that the casino concern just came in contact with this trendline four other times in the past three years after a lengthy period above it. After three of these instances, the stock was higher one month later, averaging a 6.53% positive return. A similar move from its current perch at $64.43 would put LVS just north of prior support at the $68 level. 
Daily chart of LVS
Schaeffer's

An earnings report due out on Wednesday, Jan. 29 after markets close could also give the security a little “juice.” While next-day earnings reactions for the past two years have been split, the stock did experience a 3.3% pop after its last report, and a 4.3% surge in October 2018. This time around the options pits are pricing in a 7.2% move, eclipsing the 2.8% next-day move that LVS averaged during its last eight post-earnings sessions. 
Despite the stock still boasting a near 15% year-over-year gain, the brokerage bunch has been quite bearish, which could put the wind at the equity’s back, should some of these analysts change their tune. Currently, six in coverage consider LVS a “hold,” while only three say “strong buy.” 
Options traders, on the other hand, have rarely been more bullish, as evidenced by the security's 50-day call/put volume ratio of 5.06 at the International Securities Exchange (ISE), Cboe Options Exchange (CBOE), and NASDAQ OMX PHLX (PHLX). This ratio sits higher than all other readings from this past year, suggesting a much bigger-than-usual appetite for long calls of late.