CDC warns against nonessential travel to China — companies, universities halt trips 
 As concern grows over a new viral illness that emerged in China, companies and tourists are canceling trips to the region. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advised travelers to avoid all nonessential travel to China, where the respiratory virus has killed more than 100 and sickened more than 2,700 people. Five cases have been confirmed in the U.S., all among people who traveled to Wuhan, the city where the virus was first spotted, health officials said. One of those cases was a woman from Chicago.United Airlines said demand for flights to China declined so significantly it canceled 24 flights between its U.S. hub cities and Beijing, Hong Kong and Shanghai scheduled for the first week of February, including some connecting Chicago to Beijing and Shanghai. The airline typically operates about 12 flights a day between the U.S. and China. “We will continue to monitor the situation as it develops and will adjust our schedule as needed,” United said in a statement. The airline declined to comment on the potential financial impact.Loren Rivkin, executive vice president of Northbrook-based industrial safety products company Saf-T-Gard, called off a planned trip to visit factories and customers in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Southern China on Monday after two colleagues he had planned to meet with advised him to postpone the trip.“I just decided it wasn’t worth it,” Rivkin said.CDC recommends travelers avoid all nonessential travel to #China due to the ongoing #2019nCoV (#coronavirus) outbreak. The outbreak is growing and there is limited access to adequate medical care in affected areas. https://t.co/Km38IKxIAs pic.twitter.com/NHboTImlyr CDC Travel Health (@CDCtravel) January 27, 2020 Airlines have let passengers request refunds for travel to Wuhan or reschedule flights to other cities in China, and Hyatt said it would let guests postpone or cancel stays at its hotels in China through Feb. 10. Visa and passport expediting service Swift Passport Services said companies, study abroad programs and individual travelers had all been in touch to say they were canceling upcoming trips and no longer needed visas, said CEO Laurie Lee.Two corporate clients told Lee they were putting employee travel to China on hold into March and asked Lee not to approve employees’ requests for visas.Two university study abroad programs and one private study abroad provider had also been in touch with Swift, saying they were canceling programs in China. The universities said they planned to give students the option to switch programs and pick a different overseas destination, but “that requires they get a visa ASAP,” Lee said.Local travel agencies said they didn’t expect to field any calls from customers interested in booking trips to China in the near future. But it’s too soon to say whether concerns about the virus will encourage some to avoid the region altogether, said Olivia Link, a travel advisor at Glencoe-based Lake Shore Travel.“It will depend on what we learn about how it’s spreading and the incubation period. There’s so much uncertainty right now," she said.Brett Cumberland, managing director of Chicago-based luxury tour operator R. Crusoe  Son and The Andrew Harper Travel Office, said he didn’t have any clients in China but was concerned about the virus’s potential impact on a boom in travel to Japan around the Olympic Games, which will be held in Tokyo this summer.“Our concern is not just for China and what’s going on there, but can we hold on to Japan,” he said, adding that clients’ interest in travel to China dampened during the protests in Hong Kong last year.During the SARS outbreak, “people were a little cautious, and it did put a halt on some travel,” said Paula Dunlap, a travel advisor with Direct Travel Luxe in Naperville. But it’s too soon to say whether the new virus will be as disruptive, she said.The Wuhan coronavirus outbreak is the most significant viral outbreak since SARS, according to a report from hotel and online travel industry analysts at Cowen. While it’s difficult to compare the two, analysts said hotel stays and flight sales were down as much as 80 to 90% during the peak of the SARS outbreak in May 2003 compared with the prior year, and the new outbreak “could have similar impact in China if it continues to spread."The outbreak comes just as hopes were rising that Chinese tourism to the U.S. would start to recover following two years of decline due to the prolonged trade dispute between the two countries.In 2018, travel from China to the U.S. fell for the first time in 15 years, according to the National Travel and Tourism Office, which collects data from U.S. Customs forms. The office has forecast a further decline of 5% in 2019 but had predicted a return to growth in 2020 and beyond.China remains the fifth-largest source of foreign tourism to the U.S., behind Canada, Mexico, the U.K. and Japan. Nearly 3 million Chinese traveled to the U.S. in 2018, spending more than $36 billion.At least one traveler wasn’t overly wary. John Rogers, 70, who recently returned to Chicago after living in China for six years, is scheduled to fly to Hainan, an island south of mainland China, to judge a national law school competition at the end of February. Rogers, who said he visited China during the SARS outbreak, said he would be comfortable making the trip but “fully expects to get a note saying it will be postponed or canceled.”In the meantime, travelers who canceled or delayed trips are trying to assess when they will feel comfortable returning.Peter Compernolle, of Chicago, said he typically travels to China to visit his wife’s parents each year in late spring but doesn’t expect to make plans anytime soon.“We’re keeping a close eye on the spread of coronavirus both because we have family there, and also because we sometimes need to go back there unexpectedly,” he wrote in an email.Rivkin said he plans to follow recommendations from the CDC before scheduling another trip."I’m waiting for some kind of clearance it’s contained and controlled,' he said.For now, he’s dealing with an unexpected business challenge: a spike in demand for face masks. Though the ones Rivkin sells are for industrial uses, he’s been “bombarded” with inquiries from potential customers.Rivkin said he wants to make sure he keeps enough masks in stock to supply his regular customers, but did help out a local man who asked to purchase a couple boxes to give to relatives flying to their home in Taipei.The Associated Press contributed. lzumbach@chicagotribune.com