Coronavirus LIVE tracker: Live map allows you to TRACK spread of virus 
 Coronavirus has now claimed the lives of more than 100 people and infected more than 4,000 worldwide since its outbreak in December. Despite efforts to try and contain the virus, it is still spreading rapidly, with it now having made its way to Europe and the US.

Panic has outpaced the virus so far, with health authorities in every country concerned about coronavirus.
Now researchers from the prestigious Johns Hopkins University in the US have created a live map of the virus, which allows you to track in real-time.
Using data from the World Health Organisation and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), the map shows where the virus has reached, the death toll and even how many people have recovered from the virus - 63 at the time of writing.
Lauren Gardner, a civil engineering professor at Johns Hopkins Center for Systems Science and Engineering, who helped to create the map, said: “We built this dashboard because we think it is important for the public to have an understanding of the outbreak situation as it unfolds with transparent data sources.

“For the research community, this data will become more valuable as we continue to collect it over time.”
According to the map, there are a total of 4,473 confirmed cases of coronavirus worldwide, with 107 deaths, at the time of writing.
Mainland China is by far the worst effected, with 4,409 cases, followed by Hong Kong and Thailand (eight each).
Only two countries in Europe have confirmed the disease is present, with France having two and one more in Germany.
READ MORE: Coronavirus mapped: How ready is the UK for an epidemic?

Coronaviruses are a group of viruses which included the likes of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS).
When the virus was first contracted by humans from a seafood market in Wuhan, experts believed it could not be easily spread from human to human.
However, a sharp rise in the disease since its initial discovery in December has proved the doctors wrong.
Zhong Nanshan, a top Chinese expert investigating the virus, told state media it is certainly a “human-to-human transmission phenomenon”.
DON'T MISS
Coronavirus crisis: Scientists warn vaccine could take a YEAR [INSIGHT]
Coronavirus: Infections could reach 'hundreds of thousands' in 2 weeks [ANALYSIS]
Coronavirus MAPPED: These are the 11 countries infected [MAP]

Symptoms of the disease are generally flu-like, with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) listing the following symptoms:
Runny nose
Headache
Cough
Sore throat
Fever
A general feeling of being unwell

The CDC added: “Human coronaviruses can sometimes cause lower-respiratory tract illnesses, such as pneumonia or bronchitis.
“This is more common in people with cardiopulmonary disease, people with weakened immune systems, infants, and older adults.”