Brit led away by hazmat-clad paramedics amid coronavirus fears speaks out 
 A Brit man who was led out of his house by paramedics in hazmat suits has spoken out – amid fears the coronavirus has reached the UK.

Drew Bennett, 39, got back to Harborne in south-west Birmingham on December 31 from Wuhan, the epicentre of the virus outbreak.

He started to feel unwell and guessed he’d caught a serious case of the flu.

Drew’s symptoms subsided and he visited the doctor on January 27 for an unrelated matter.

His GP asked if he had visited China and he was told to return home.

An ambulance was then sent to Drew’s home – captured in footage filmed by a neighbour – and he was put in isolation at Queen Elizabeth Hospital.

Drew told Birmingham Live: "I'm now in isolation at the QE and just waiting to get my blood test results.

"I don't feel particularly unwell now, but I've not been 100% since returning from Wuhan.

"Since I got over the worst symptoms I've been back to work, shopping, just normal life.

"It's a really worrying time and not a nice experience."

The clip of Drew being taken to hospital has been viewed more than 143,000 times on Twitter since Monday afternoon.

The woman who recorded it, 20-year-old Mollie Lune, told Birmingham Live: "I saw the ambulance outside first and it was there for about an hour which I thought was unusual.

"Then I saw two people in hazmat suits. One had already gone into the ambulance by the time I grabbed my phone to record it.

"There was an ambulance and two ambulance cars there as well. The two paramedics had face masks on."

Viewers questioned why two of the paramedics were not dressed head-to-toe in the same protective gear as their colleague.

One tweeted: "So the ambulance drivers are not even wearing protective clothing yet do get rather close to the patient? Is the UK really prepared? I think not."

Another wrote: "At the end of your video appears a person without mask. I don't think they would let anybody near without protection?!"

A third, referencing the Health Secretary, added: "We are prepared are we not, Matt Hancock? No face mask & no gloves on either of the paramedics."

Public Health England has confirmed it is testing a man from Harborne for coronavirus, with results expected within 48 hours.

The Department of Health and the Queen Elizabeth Hospital refused to comment further on the video when approached by Daily Star Online.

There have been 97 cases of suspected coronavirus tested in the UK, but so far no positive diagnoses.

British ministers have said they are working to get Brits out of Hubei province in China, with Prime Minister Boris Johnson insisting the government is doing “everything we can”.

The death toll for the virus stands at 106, with the number of infections almost doubling in a day to more than 4,500.