No coronavirus cases in Colorado as third patient tests negative 
 A third person evaluated for possible infection with a new coronavirus tested negative, meaning there’s no evidence the disease has reached Colorado, according to the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment.

The three people who were tested had developed flu-like symptoms after traveling to China, where the new virus is spreading.

It’s not unusual to have several people test negative when a new illness is in the news, because health care providers are being careful to identify any possible cases and patients are less likely to dismiss symptoms, said Deanna Herbert, spokeswoman for CDPHE’s Division of Disease Control and Public Health Response.

Five cases of the new virus have been reported in four states: California, Arizona, Washington and Illinois. Another 32 people tested negative, and 73 cases are still being tested. Cases have been reported in 16 countries.

					
				

Vice President Mike Pence announced Tuesday that the number of American airports screening for the new virus would increase from five to 20. It’s not yet known if Denver International Airport will be on the list.

The screening involves checking passengers for a fever with a thermometer that doesn’t need to touch the body, and watching for coughing or signs of trouble breathing, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. People who appear to be sick will be evaluated further and may be transported for medical care. Those who aren’t sick will get a card with instructions about what to do if they develop flu-like symptoms in the next two weeks.

The CDC also advised air crews to monitor passengers and attempt to separate anyone who appears sick from other passengers.


On Monday, the CDC recommended that travelers put off any nonessential trips to China, and not travel to the city of Wuhan under any circumstances. The disease was first identified in Wuhan, and a significant number of the reported cases and deaths are there or in surrounding Hubei province.

The virus appears to have started in a market selling live animals in Wuhan. So far, all cases in Americans were found in people who recently visited China, according to the CDC.

					
				

More than 4,500 cases have been reported worldwide. As of Tuesday, more than 98% of infections and all of the 106 reported deaths were in China, according to The New York Times.