Iran: Trump Mideast peace plan a 'nightmare' for region and world 
 The Iranian foreign minister on Tuesday called President Trump Donald John TrumpWarren: Dershowitz presentation 'nonsensical,' 'could not follow it' Bolton told Barr he was concerned Trump did favors for autocrats: report Dershowitz: Bolton allegations would not constitute impeachable offense MORE’s newly revealed Middle East peace plan a “nightmare”  for the region and world.

Javad Zarif condemned the White House’s proposed “Vision for Peace” on Twitter by posting a picture with the plan’s title crossed out and replaced with “Sleepwalking into Catastrophe.” The foreign minister called people to “#UniteForPalestinians."

“The so-called "Vision for Peace" is simply the dream project of a bankruptcy-ridden real estate developer,” he wrote. “But it is a nightmare for the region and the world. And, hopefully, a wake-up call for all the Muslims who have been barking up the wrong tree.”

The president revealed his plan for a two-state solution in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict Tuesday, after getting approval by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu Benjamin (Bibi) NetanyahuMORE and opposition party leader Benny Gantz. During his announcement, he encouraged Palestinian leaders to back the plan.

The proposal includes giving some land in the West Bank and other areas recognized by the U.S. as part of Israel to the Palestinian government, once conditions are met.

“My vision provides a win-win opportunity for both sides. A realistic two-state solution that resolves the risk of Palestinian statehood to Israel’s security,” Trump said at the White House event.

Sen. Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth Ann WarrenWarren: Dershowitz presentation 'nonsensical,' 'could not follow it' On The Money: Stocks close with steep losses driven by coronavirus fears | Tax season could bring more refund confusion | Trump's new wins for farmers may not undo trade damage Overnight Energy: Sanders scores highest on green group's voter guide | Trump's latest wins for farmers may not undo trade damage | Amazon employees defy company to speak on climate change MORE (D-Mass.) also spoke out against the plan saying that it did not offer any chance for a “real” Palestinian state.

Tuesday’s White House rollout marked a culmination of sorts for Trump as he has long promised that he would deliver a plan to foster peace between Israelis and Palestinians, but details had always been scarce and the release was repeatedly delayed.

There is much skepticism about the proposal. Palestinian leaders had cut off communications with U.S. officials in 2018 after Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said the U.S. would relocate its embassy there.