How to live longer: The sleeping pattern proven to increase your life expectancy 
 Living a long life is a universal goal that is largely obtainable thanks to pioneering research that continues to reveal the lifestyle habits most conducive to a long life.
The most important takeaway message is that certain lifestyle decisions can give rise to the development of chronic complications so it best to avoid these habits at all costs.
Eating an unhealthy diet, for example, can lead to heart disease, a major killer in the UK, so shunning the worst offenders will contribute to a long life.

A less obvious but equally important factor in determining life expectancy is regular sleeping patterns.
One study reports that longevity is likely linked to regular sleeping patterns, such as going to bed and waking up around the same time each day.
Sleep duration also seems to be a factor, with both too little and too much being harmful.
For instance, sleeping less than five to seven hours per night is linked to a 12 percent greater risk of early death, while sleeping more than eight to nine hours per night could also decrease your lifespan by up to 38 percent.
READ MORE: How to lose visceral fat: The best exercise proven to eliminate the dangerous belly fat


Research investigating the link between too little sleep and life expectancy suggests getting an insufficient amount  can increase your risk of diabetes, heart disease, and obesity.
Diabetes, heart disease obesity are dangerous precursors to cardiovascular complications, such as heart attacks.
Excessive sleep may also pose a threat to life expectancy.
Research suggests excessive sleep could be linked to depression, low physical activity, and undiagnosed health conditions, all of which may negatively affect your lifespan.
DON'T MISS
Heart attack: Noticing this warning sign in your ear shouldn’t be ignored [TIPS]
Best supplements for cholesterol: The plant-based supplement proven to lower your levels [TIPS]
Coronavirus mapped: How ready is the UK for an epidemic compared to the rest of the world? [INSIGHT]
 

Alarmingly, one study published in the journal Neurology also found that people who both slept for longer than nine hours and napped for more than 90 minutes per day had an 85 percent higher risk of stroke than those who slept and napped moderately.
A stroke is a serious life-threatening medical condition that happens when the blood supply to part of the brain is cut off.
Proposing an explanation for the link, corresponding author on the study Dr. Xiaomin Zhang, from Huazhong University of Science and Technology, said: "More research is needed to understand how taking long naps and sleeping longer hours at night may be tied to an increased risk of stroke, but previous studies have shown that long nappers and sleepers have unfavorable changes in their cholesterol levels and increased waist circumferences, both of which are risk factors for stroke.
Dr Zhang added: "In addition, long napping and sleeping may suggest an overall inactive lifestyle, which is also related to increased risk of stroke."

How to get into a regular sleeping routine
According to the NHS, most adults need between six and nine hours of sleep every night.
“By working out what time you need to wake up, you can set a regular bedtime schedule,” explains the health body.
It is also important to try and wake up at the same time every day to keep the risks at bay.
The NHS explains: “While it may seem like a good idea to try to catch up on sleep after a bad night, doing so on a regular basis can also disrupt your sleep routine.”


How can I catch up on lost sleep?
According to the NHS, if you've had months of restricted sleep, you'll have built up a significant sleep debt, so expect recovery to take several weeks.
Starting on a weekend, try to add on an extra hour or two of sleep a night, advises the health site.
“The way to do this is to go to bed when you're tired, and allow your body to wake you in the morning (no alarm clocks allowed!),” explains the health body.
It adds: “Expect to sleep for upwards of 10 hours a night at first. After a while, the amount of time you sleep will gradually decrease to a normal level.”