Why McCormick executive remain confident amid drop in stock price 
 McCormick  Co. Inc. is not only Greater Baltimore's largest public company — it's also one of the most consistent. So it was surprising to see the company fall short of Wall Street's sales estimate and its stock price decline.


Sales during the fourth quarter were $1.48 billon compared to a $1.52 billion projection. After reporting earnings for fiscal 2019 of $5.24 per share, McCormick executives said they expect earnings in 2020 to be between $5.15 and $5.25. Adjusted for special charges and tax reform, earnings per share are expected to be $5.20 to $5.30.


            
            
        Ken Goldman, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase  Co., described the spice maker's guidance as "conservative." He wasn't alone in his sentiment as McCormick (NYSE: MKC) shares fell 4% to $165.77 as of afternoon trading on Tuesday.


CEO Lawrence Kurzius and Chief Financial Officer Mike Smith said a decline in private label sales in the Americas and Europe, the Middle East and Africa tempered overall sales growth. Private labels consist of the generic spices and seasonings McCormick produces for customers such as Walmart Inc. (NYSE: WMT). 


Kurzius said the private label flavor category has moderated after years of growth and expects the business to remain uneven in 2020. The decline in the fourth quarter came after an increase in the third quarter that was bigger than expected. 


"This is just kind of the normal ebb and flow of this business," Kurzius said. "Private label is not as strong as it was a year ago...We are selective about where we participate. There are always a level of wins and losses. We want to participate in private label where it's of strategic value to us and also where frankly, it's profitable."


McCormick's branded products had strong sales during the quarter, Kurzius said, which is reflected in the company's wider profit margins. 


Kurzius and Smith also discussed McCormick's plan to replace its enterprise resource planning software, or ERP, which is used for business planning and management. Kurzius said the replacement to a single global system by SAP SE, which will cost $300 million to $350 million, will allow for more digitalization and automation. 


The replacement, which is expected to be completed by fiscal 2022, is the main reason for "conservative" earnings guidance. Kurzius said McCormick expects sales growth to remain strong and that the company will resume its "normal growth algorithm" for profitability in 2021.


McCormick's last replacement of its system was in the early 2000s, Kurzius said. Since then, the company has more than doubled in size to $5.35 billion in sales.


"We want to be ahead of the curve in achieving an advanced integrated platform which will allow us to realize the benefits of a scalable platform for growth sooner enable and growth in line with our aspirations," Kurzius said.


The total cost projection includes estimates related to "going live" with the system as it is rolled out by fiscal 2022. Total operating expense for the project is $180 million to $210 million. McCormick will take on $80 million in operating costs this year, $60 million more than last year. 


CFRA Research analyst Arun Sundaram said in a note to investors that he still has confidence in McCormick shares because of the company's reputation. He lowered his price target for the stock by $5 to $155 and expects earnings to be $5.27 per share. 


"We keep a hold on valuation but like [McCormick] for its strong track record of returning cash to shareholders," Sundaram said. "We're also keeping an eye on the coronavirus situation as [McCormick] has a plant in Wuhan, China."


Kurzius also said the ERP replacement will not affect McCormick's ability to do an acquisition. Kurzius has told analysts in prior calls that McCormick is exploring possible acquisitions as it pays off the debt from its $4.2 billion purchase of French's mustard and Frank's RedHot Sauce in 2017.


"Our priority of course is growth, so if we had an attractive asset we wanted to buy, we would adjust our ERP plans in order to accommodate it," Kurzius said. "We've been thoughtful about that internally and don't believe it would interfere with our ability to do an acquisition of the right asset whether it be a bolt-on or a large one."


If McCormick does an acquisition, it would look for a target to give it more international balance or to bolster its flavor solutions business, which serves industrial customers. Kurzius said McCormick has looked at some targets and is "actively considering assets that come available." 


"We are not going to let a great asset get away," Kurzius said.