Louis Vuitton Owner LVMH Sees Record 2019—But Only ‘Cautiously Confident’ About 2020 
 Billionaire Bernard Arnault said the company remains cautiously confident about 2020
AFP via Getty ImagesTopline: Luxury titan LVMH reported record sales in 2019 fueled by strong demand for its fashion and leather goods, but is only “cautiously confident” about the year ahead amid political unrest in Hong Kong that has dented luxury sales in the region.
LVMH saw fourth quarter revenue grow 8% to $16.8 billion (€15.3 billion), for a total of $60 billion (€53.7 billion) in sales last year (up 15% over 2018). 
Sales were powered by strong growth in Europe, the U.S. and Asia, despite headwinds from Hong Kong’s ongoing protests and a hike in sales tax in Japan in the fourth quarter.
Louis Vuitton, the group’s jewel in the crown, saw “exceptional growth,” thanks to expanded product lines, including in shoes and its famously monogrammed handbags.
LVMH made a number of impressive acquisitions in 2019, including storied American jeweller Tiffany  Co for $16.2 billion and the world’s largest uncut diamond, for an undisclosed sum. 
It also launched luxury fashion house Fenty, helmed by Rihanna, following the impressive growth of their cosmetics collaboration, Fenty Beauty.
Billionaire Arnault's net worth rose by $2.9 billion on Tuesday to $108.7 billion according to Forbes' Real Time Billionaire rankings. Shares at LVMH rose 2.74%.

Crucial comment: The company is monitoring the outbreak of the pneumonia-like coronavirus in China, but it is too early to tell its impact on the business, Arnault said. He added that the virus, which has infected more than 4,500 people, does not look as “aggressive” as the 2002 SARS outbreak.
Key background: LVMH is the world’s biggest luxury brand with its expanding roster of companies across fashion, jewellery and wines, among other categories, including Louis Vuitton, Dior, TagHeuer and Hennessy. The conglomerate, with a market cap of $200 billion, set about expanding its foothold on the U.S. last year. President Donald Trump controversially cut the ribbon on a new Louis Vuitton factory in Texas in October, while LVMH recently inked a multiyear deal with the NBA as it seeks to capitalize on a lucrative sportswear market. Arnault acquired the company in 1990 and has grown its reach and portfolio since. His own pockets have been well-lined in the process—the 70-year-old was Forbes’ cover star in November and is valued to be worth nearly $110 billion. He is the world’s third richest person after Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and Microsoft chief Bill Gates.
Tangent: After Trump opened the new Louis Vuitton factory in Texas, creative director Nicolas Ghesquiere responded on Instagram, stating, “Standing against any political action. I am a fashion designer refusing this association #trumpisajoke #homophobia.”
What to watch for in 2020: The company is set to open a four-storey Louis Vuitton store in Osaka, Japan with an adjoining cafe, marking its entrance into the restaurant business. The move hints at a greater expansion into the hospitality sector, after LVMH bought luxury hotels group Belmond in 2018. Meanwhile, LVMH expects to build out new leather workshops in 2020 to add to the ones it opened in France and Texas last year and meet consumer demand, Arnault said. The group remains “cautiously confident” this year amid an “uncertain geopolitical context.”
Further reading: The $100 Billion Man: How Bernard Arnault Stitched Together The World’s Third Biggest Fortune With Louis Vuitton, Dior And 77 Other Brands—And Why He’s Not Done Yet (Susan Adams)
Coronavirus Hits Big Business: These Companies Are Cutting Operations And Restricting Travel To China As Disease Spreads (Sergei Klebnikov)