Ontario health officials say 8 cases cleared of coronavirus 
 Health officials say eight cases in Ontario have been cleared of the new coronavirus.

The province’s Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care told CityNews on Tuesday that out of the 19 patients being tested, only 11 cases continue to be investigated.

So far, there are two confirmed cases of coronavirus in Canada — the patients are a husband and wife who returned to Toronto on Jan. 22 after a visit to China that included a stay in Wuhan, where the new strain of coronavirus is believed to have originated.

On Monday, the province said the husband, who is currently at Sunnybrook Hospital, was the first confirmed case of novel coronavirus. Then on Tuesday, the federal health ministry confirmed the second case, the man’s wife. At this point, she remains under self-isolation at home.

During Monday’s update, the province’s Associate Chief Medical Officer of Health Dr. Barbara Yaffe said that the 19 other people were tested and that results were pending. The majority of them are in hospital and Yaffe said “quite a few are in Toronto.”

Aside from the 19 tested, Coronavirus had been ruled out in another 15 or 16 people.

Meanwhile, Toronto Public Health has set up a hotline for passengers who travelled on China Southern Airlines flight CZ311 — the same flight as the couple — which arrived in Toronto from Guangzhou. People who were on this flight can call 416-338-7600, Monday to Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. with questions.

So far, Canada has three cases of coronavirus — one of them being presumptive.

The latest presumptive case is a man in his 40s from British Columbia. Officials said on Tuesday that he is doing well as he recovers at home. If confirmed, it would be the first case of coronavirus in B.C.

B.C. health officer Dr. Bonnie Henry said the man works regularly in China and lives in the area covered by Vancouver Coastal Health. He is recovering at home.

China has confirmed more than 4,500 cases of a new form of coronavirus, with at least 106 deaths.