FCO advises against all but essential travel to mainland China 
 In light of the ongoing coronavirus outbreak, the Foreign & Commonwealth now advises against ‘all but essential’ travel to mainland China.


British people currently in China should make decisions based on their own personal circumstances, bearing in mind that travel may become more difficult in the coming days.


Commercial options for departing China remain available except in Hubei Province. The Foreign Office is working to finalise arrangements for evacuating British nationals from Hubei.


Any British nationals with questions or concerns should contact our helpline (+44) (0)207 008 1500.


Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said:



 Due to the increasing travel restrictions and the public health situation, we now advise against all but essential travel to China.


 We are also working urgently to finalise arrangements for an assisted departure from Hubei Province for British nationals this week, and are in contact with people in Hubei to ensure they register their interest and that we can keep them updated.


 The UK continues to be guided by the latest medical advice about the coronavirus outbreak. The safety and security of British people will always be our top priority.



British people should consider whether they judge that travelling to or staying in China is essential.


British nationals who require assistance can contact the FCO to speak to a member of staff.


This advice refers to mainland China. It excludes Hong Kong and Macau.


Due to increasing travel restrictions and difficulty accessing medical assistance, the FCO is working to make an option available for British nationals to leave Hubei Province. This may happen quickly and with short notice. If you’re a British national in Hubei Province and need assistance, contact our 24/7 number +86 (0) 10 8529 6600 or the FCO in London on (+44) (0)207 008 1500 to register your desire to leave before 29 January at 11am local time. You will be contacted once arrangements are confirmed.


Full FCO Travel Advice for China can be found here.



 
 Media enquiries


 
 
For journalists 




 
 
 Email
 newsdesk@fco.gov.uk
 

 
 Newsdesk 
 020 7008 3100