Apple, Starbucks & eBay Earnings Previews & A Strong Buy Retail Stock - Free Lunch 
 On today’s episode of Free Lunch here at Zacks, Associate Stock Strategist Ben Rains previews what investors can expect from Apple AAPL, Starbucks SBUX, and eBay EBAY earnings Tuesday. The episode then ends with why Guess?, Inc. GES is a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy) stock right now.

The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq all jumped Tuesday after Monday’s coronavirus-based selloff, as Wall Street tries to decide what is the appropriate level of worry. China and other countries have boosted their efforts to limit the spread of the coronavirus that has now infected roughly 4,500 people and killed at least 106.

Despite the worries, quarterly earnings took center stage Tuesday. Lockheed Martin LMT, 3M MMM, and Pfizer PFE all reported before the opening bell today, with 3M and Pfizer down big.

Looking ahead to after the bell, investors will see if Starbucks can keep up its solid momentum in the U.S. and China. The global coffee giant has boosted its delivery and digital efforts to help expand and match consumer demand.

Meanwhile, eBay stock has fallen 14% in the past six months as investors worry that its larger rivals such as Amazon AMZN have started to dominate too much of the e-commerce market, alongside traditional retailers like Walmart WMT.

And, of course, Tuesday’s biggest name is Apple. The stock has climbed over 100% in the past year and its Q1 fiscal 2020 report will help show investors if its services business will continue to drive sales.

Investors should pay close attention to its iPhone outlook, early Apple TV+ numbers as it tries to fight its way into the streaming wars alongside Netflix NFLX and Disney DIS, and more

We then close with a look a why Guess? is a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy), with its shares trading near $20.

Just Released: Zacks’ 7 Best Stocks for Today



Experts extracted 7 stocks from the list of 220 Zacks Rank #1 Strong Buys that has beaten the market more than 2X over with a stunning average gain of +24.6% per year.



These 7 were selected because of their superior potential for immediate breakout.



See these time-sensitive tickers now >>





Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report

 

The Walt Disney Company (DIS) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

eBay Inc. (EBAY) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Netflix, Inc. (NFLX) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Pfizer Inc. (PFE) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Lockheed Martin Corporation (LMT) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Apple Inc. (AAPL) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

3M Company (MMM) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Walmart Inc. (WMT) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Starbucks Corporation (SBUX) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Guess?, Inc. (GES) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

To read this article on Zacks.com click here.

 

Zacks Investment Research