Coronavirus: Wuhan Resident Says City Hospitals Lack Sufficient Tests for Infection 
 By the time her mother completed the IV treatment and returned home, it was almost 11 pm at night. Worried about the ongoing coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan that had killed over 100 people and sickened over 4500, Liu told her father, 61, to sleep in the living room to avoid the risk of being infected by her mother, who may have caught the deadly new virus.

But by early Thursday morning, Liu was awakened by the non-stop coughing from her father, who had been taking care of her mother for more than four days before asking her for help. Liu’s father suffered a mild stroke about ten years ago and was partially paralyzed on one side of his body.

After listening to her father cough for more than four hours, Liu got out of bed at 6 on Thursday morning and was ready to go to the hospital to wait in line for further treatment of her mother again.

When her mother’s conditions improved after completing another round of IV treatment by noon, Liu realized that her father could be infected by the new coronavirus as he developed a fever.

After doing various blood tests and CT scans for more than half of the day, doctors at the Wuhan Central Hospital told Liu by 9 pm on Thursday that her father was very likely to have contracted the new coronavirus, but could not confirm the diagnosis without the proper tests.

Amid the rampaging outbreak that led Chinese authorities to put Wuhan under total lockdown, the city’s hospitals were being overwhelmed by sick patients like Liu’s parents seeking assistance. The average waiting time for a simply IV treatment at the hospitals was 6-8 hours and only patients with serious conditions, such as those who had trouble breathing, would be allowed to be hospitalized.

Devastated by her father’s condition and not being able to find a hospital bed for him, Liu decided to post her situation on Chinese social media Weibo in the hope of someone could offer her some assistance.

Luckily, warm-hearted Samaritans on Weibo suggested Liu try other hospitals further away from the epicentre of the outbreak in the city. Eventually, Liu found out that the Wuchang Hospital had the shortest waiting time, about 3-4 hours, for IV treatment and decided to try her luck there.

Many other local residents in Wuhan were not as lucky as Liu’s father.

Kong Qingwen’s grandmother, 83, died on Wednesday after developing a fever two days before. By Sunday, Kong’s grandfather, 85, who had preexisting heart conditions began to feel bad and CT scans showed strong signs of lung infection.

According to Kong, her case was not unique in hard-hit communities in Wuhan.

"From what I learned in my community, my family was not the only one facing such situations where both of the elderlies became gravely ill recently. In some families, both of elderlies passed away," she said.

Kong’s family cremated her grandmother quickly without any confirmation about whether she was infected by the coronavirus or not. Kong just hoped that her grandfather still had a fighting chance.

To address the shortage of hospital beds in the city, local authorities in Wuhan said two new temporary hospitals were being constructed and could offer at least 2,000 additional beds upon completion.

After checking her father in at the Wuchang Hospital under quarantine, Liu began to develop a fever herself three days ago and her husband started to experience diarrhoea.

Liu said she did not want to go to the hospital to seek treatment at the moment, because she wanted to leave the previous medical resources to the patients who were in much more serious conditions.

Nevertheless, Liu admitted that if she was confirmed by the proper test to have been infected by the new coronavirus, she would want to be hospitalized and quarantined to avoid infecting others.

According to Liu, all the hospitals in Wuhan have been running short of the proper test for the new coronavirus, which makes it very difficult to confirm infections for possible patients like her family members.

After being under quarantine for more than five days, Liu’s father has not been confirmed to have contracted the coronavirus or not.

The views and opinions expressed in the article do not necessarily reflect those of Sputnik.