Live: NSW Now: Students asked to miss first two weeks of school if they've travelled to China 
 Here's what you need to know this morning.

The NSW Department of Education has apologised for changing its coronavirus advice, after asking all children who visited China in the past two weeks to stay home from school.

Yesterday's announcement came just hours after the Government said only students who had direct contact with a confirmed case of coronavirus should stay away.

"We've got thousands of students who are heading back to school today and only late last night, perhaps by chance their parents maybe became aware of this latest revelation," he said.

The Department of Foreign Affairs has told Australians to reconsider all travel to China and not to travel to Hubei Province at all as the worldwide death toll climbs to 106.

Firefighting response times increased across most of NSW between 2018 and 2019 but wage costs skyrocketed by more than $180 million from the previous year.

A Productivity Commission report released today reveals it took crews at least one minute longer to arrive at structural fires in major cities and around three minutes longer in regional and remote areas.

However response times improved by around 11 minutes in 'very remote' areas.

Figures show most firefighters are between 40 to 60 years old and the Commission said this may create problems in the coming decade if younger people were not recruited.

A 42-year-old man died in a wakeboarding accident on the Hawkesbury River yesterday.

At about 3:30pm, emergency services were called to a caravan park on Hall Street, Pitt Town, after reports a person had been injured while wakeboarding.

NSW Ambulance officers were unable to resuscitate the man and he died at the scene.

A woman has died and a 16-year-old boy has been arrested in an overnight stabbing in Sydney.

Police said emergency services were called to a home at Woolooware in southern Sydney after 1:00am this morning.

They found a 42-year-old woman with multiple stab wounds in the back. She was treated at the scene but died later in hospital.

The boy was arrested at the scene, and is now being interviewed by police.