2 Miami University students tested for possible coronavirus 
 Two students at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio are being tested for a possible infection of the coronavirus, school officials said Tuesday.On Monday morning, one student at the university presented himself at Student Health Services with very mild symptoms, and with recent travel to China, met the criteria to be tested, school health officials said."Health providers quickly recognized that the presenting patient met the criteria for 2019-coronavirus testing, results should be back from the CDC in the coming days," a statement from the university reads.The student, described only as a male, and his traveling companion are isolated in their off-campus residence while awaiting the test results. According to school officials, only one of these students showed potential symptoms, and the other is being tested as a precaution.Miami and health care professionals are working with the Butler County Health District and the Ohio Department of Health and are following their recommendations and protocols.As a precaution, the university has postponed its Tuesday night men's basketball game against Central Michigan and its Wednesday night women's basketball against Western Michigan.Those games will be made up at a later date.The novel coronavirus has sickened thousands and killed at least 100 people in China. The virus mainly sickens animals, but this specific coronavirus "jumped the species barrier" to infect people on a large scale, officials with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said.Despite the coronavirus' impact in China, the CDC maintains that the risk to Americans is low.Reported illnesses have ranged from infected people with little or no symptoms to death, officials with the CDC said. Symptoms are similar to other respiratory illnesses. These viruses may cause mild to severe respiratory illnesses with symptoms of fever, cough and shortness of breath.As of Tuesday morning, there were 1,771 new cases confirmed in China, raising the national total to 4,515, according to the National Health Commission. It said 976 people were in serious condition.Infections have been confirmed in the United States, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Nepal, France, Germany, Canada, Australia and Sri Lanka.The sharp rise in infections in recent days suggests there has been significant human-to-human spread of the virus, though it could also be explained by expanded monitoring efforts, said Malik Peiris, chair in virology at the University of Hong Kong.Experts worry that the new virus may spread more easily than originally thought, or may have mutated into a form that does so. It is from the coronavirus family, which also can cause the common cold as well as more serious illnesses such as SARS.WLWT will update this story as details develop.

Two students at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio are being tested for a possible infection of the coronavirus, school officials said Tuesday. On Monday morning, one student at the university presented himself at Student Health Services with very mild symptoms, and with recent travel to China, met the criteria to be tested, school health officials said. "Health providers quickly recognized that the presenting patient met the criteria for 2019-coronavirus testing, results should be back from the CDC in the coming days," a statement from the university reads. The student, described only as a male, and his traveling companion are isolated in their off-campus residence while awaiting the test results. According to school officials, only one of these students showed potential symptoms, and the other is being tested as a precaution. Miami and health care professionals are working with the Butler County Health District and the Ohio Department of Health and are following their recommendations and protocols. As a precaution, the university has postponed its Tuesday night men's basketball game against Central Michigan and its Wednesday night women's basketball against Western Michigan. Those games will be made up at a later date. The novel coronavirus has sickened thousands and killed at least 100 people in China. The virus mainly sickens animals, but this specific coronavirus "jumped the species barrier" to infect people on a large scale, officials with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said. Despite the coronavirus' impact in China, the CDC maintains that the risk to Americans is low. Reported illnesses have ranged from infected people with little or no symptoms to death, officials with the CDC said. Symptoms are similar to other respiratory illnesses. These viruses may cause mild to severe respiratory illnesses with symptoms of fever, cough and shortness of breath. As of Tuesday morning, there were 1,771 new cases confirmed in China, raising the national total to 4,515, according to the National Health Commission. It said 976 people were in serious condition. Infections have been confirmed in the United States, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Nepal, France, Germany, Canada, Australia and Sri Lanka. The sharp rise in infections in recent days suggests there has been significant human-to-human spread of the virus, though it could also be explained by expanded monitoring efforts, said Malik Peiris, chair in virology at the University of Hong Kong. Experts worry that the new virus may spread more easily than originally thought, or may have mutated into a form that does so. It is from the coronavirus family, which also can cause the common cold as well as more serious illnesses such as SARS. WLWT will update this story as details develop.