Coronavirus: China vows to slay 'demon' virus as fear grows 
 Hong Kong's leader says the country will cut all rail links to mainland China and halve the number of flights as authorities around the world seek to stem the spread of the new coronavirus.

By Wednesday morning (NZT) the death toll had risen to 106 in China, with more than 4565 cases of infection.

Chinese leader Xi Jinping said his country was being "open, transparent, responsible" in its handling of the coronavirus outbreak, as the number of cases continued to increase.

Calling the coronavirus a "demon," Xi told World Health Organisation director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus that he would not "let a demon hide" as he vouched for his government's ability to handle the crisis.

READ MORE:

 * Australians told to reconsider all travel to China as coronavirus spreads

 * Hong Kong cuts rail links to China to curb coronavirus

 * China counts 106 virus deaths as US, other countries, prepare to evacuate citizens

 * 'Worst is yet to come': China struggles to cope with coronavirus, death toll jumps to 80

 * Coronavirus death toll in China rises, Hong Kong Disneyland closed, US to evacuate some citizens

China had already cut off access to Wuhan - a city of 11 million people - and 16 other cities in Hubei province to prevent people from leaving and spreading the virus further.

There are reports small villages in the country had barricaded themselves in against the coronavirus. They were not acting on government orders but taking matters into their own hands, Sky News reported.

Handwritten signs at street entrances said: "No outsiders allowed in."

The government in Beijing broadened an extraordinary quarantine to more than 50 million people - roughly equal to the population of Spain.

Chinese officials said the worst was yet to come. Health Minister Ma Xiaowei said that the virus was developing the ability to spread more easily, while the vice minister of industry, Wang Jiangping, said demand for medical supplies was overwhelming China's ability to produce them.

In Wuhan, the city where the virus was first reported, workers were racing to build at least three pop-up 1000-bed hospitals in the city to cope with the anticipated surge of patients.

After a slow start, Chinese authorities moved aggressively, extending the annual Lunar New Year holiday beyond its scheduled January 30 end and deployed more than 1000 doctors and military personnel to Wuhan.

Chinese authorities had banned the sale of wild animals for the duration of the crisis, after reports the virus had originated in a food market.

Scientists said the virus was adapting to humans much faster than the previous coronavirus epidemic, SARS - Severe Accute Respiratory Syndrome, which struck over several months between 2002 - 2003.

It took the SARS virus three months to mutate into a form that spread easily among humans, but the related Wuhan coronavirus took one month, George Fu, a top Chinese epidemiologist, told reporters.

The Wuhan coronavirus has caused mild to severe respiratory illness, fever, coughing and shortness of breath. The US Centers for Disease Control believes symptoms can manifest two to 14 days after exposure. No drugs or vaccines have been recommended specifically to treat the virus.

Additional cases have been identified in a growing number of other international locations.