Hyderabad: 5 new patients admitted to Fever Hospital in city 
 Hyderabad: Five new patients with travel history to China this month have got admitted themselves at Fever Hospital, Nallakunta on Tuesday. 
They had fever, mild cold, stuffy nose conditions and hence were being treated in the isolation ward of the hospital. 
 
Dr K Shankar, Fever Hospital superintendent said that they would send samples of the five admitted persons on Wednesday morning to check for positive or negative to coronavirus. 
 
Of the admitted five patients, three are members of a same family-including husband, wife and a small daughter. 
 
The family which returned from China a week ago contacted Fever Hospital authorities after coming to know about the wide campaign put up by the Union Health Ministry to approach the local nodal health centres if they develop any health issues within a month after their return from the neighboring Asian nation. 
 
The Fever Hospital doctors initially thought of sending samples of the three patients to Pune on Tuesday evening. In the evening, another two persons got admitted in Fever hospital after getting ill. 
 
In a span of one week, ten persons got admitted in Fever Hospital as a precautionary measure citing travel history to China. Doctors until now sent samples of two persons to NIV, Pune and both were found to be negative and all of them were discharged and told to stay put at home without venturing into public spaces for the next one to two weeks as coronavirus incubation period lasts for one month. Meanwhile, the Health department has given directions to establish 100 beds for admission and treatment of coronavirus (nCoV) cases in Telangana. 
 
While Fever Hospital and Gandhi Hospital have 40-beds each, 20-beds have been allocated in the Chest hospital, Erragadda. The Fever Hospital is the nodal centre where patients with China travel history and related symptoms would be kept in isolation and for collection of samples. 
 
 Patients who require ICU treatment and ventilator support would be sent to Gandhi hospital and to Chest hospital.