'Out of control' Andy Ruiz dumps trainer Manny Robles 
 Trainer Manny Robles wasn't impressed with the attitude of Andy Ruiz Jr for his rematch with Anthony Joshua.

Manny Robles has confirmed Andy Ruiz has axed him as his trainer, saying the world heavyweight champion was out of control for his failed defence against Anthony Joshua.

Mexican Ruiz stunned the boxing world by knocking out British star Joshua in New York last June to win three of the four main belts.

But he got horribly out of shape for the rematch and was humbled by Joshua in Saudi Arabia in December, losing by a unanimous points decision.

Robles said there was no surprise when the call came from Ruiz's promoter Al Haymon to cut their ties. He felt it was inevitable.

READ MORE:

 * Wach one of four options for Parker

 * Coronavirus strands NZ boxers

 * Parker teaming up with Fury

 * Parker won't duck Usyk

 * Ruiz v Whyte?

"I've seen it coming, I'll be honest with you," Robles told ESPN.

"I've seen it coming during camp. I saw it coming, Andy was just doing whatever the hell he wanted to do. The dad, obviously with him being the manager, he just had no control over his son. None of us had control of him, for that matter.

"So I just saw it coming, it wasn't going to work because he wasn't listening. He's not listening to me, he's not listening to his dad, he's not listening to anybody.

"He said it himself after the press conference [in Saudi Arabia]. He apologised to me, to the dad, because he f***ed up. So I figured, 'OK, it's only a matter of time before I get the call.' Fortunately for me, Andy took the blame on himself and didn't sit there like a majority of fighters and blame the coach."

Robles said Haymon had explained "they didn't want the same thing to repeat itself" as they tried to plan a route back to the top for the talented but undisciplined Ruiz who has yet to return to the gym.

There is speculation that Ruiz is looking to link with hard-nosed trainer Teddy Atlas.

Ruiz, meanwhile, has indicated he is open to a rematch with New Zealand heavyweight Joseph Parker, the only other boxer to have beaten him.

Parker scored a majority points decision against Ruiz in Auckland in late 2016 to claim the WBO world heavyweight title.

"There's a lot out there. There's Tyson Fury, there's Deontay Wilder, there's Dillian Whyte, there's Joseph Parker," Ruiz told Dank City in a bizarre interview where he appeared more interested in showing off the rewards for his brief rise to the top – a mansion, a fleet of expensive cars and a liking for clothes.

"There's a lot out there, but I'll fight anybody. Probably Wilder or Fury [fits best] one of those tall guys, you know."