DFW Airport will begin screening passengers for coronavirus 
 Dallas Fort Worth International Airport will begin screening passengers for symptoms of the deadly novel coronavirus, an airport spokesperson confirmed Tuesday.


DFW will begin the effort as part of broader screening nationwide. Robert Redfield, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said during a Tuesday press conference passenger screening will increase to 20 U.S. airports, up from the current five.


            
            
        "A team of public health professionals from the CDC will execute the monitoring program as soon as their team is in place," said an airport spokesperson. "DFW Airport Public Safety is trained and prepared to support the CDC and the Tarrant County Public Health Department if monitoring efforts require a coordinated response."


The CDC updated travel guidance Monday saying U.S. flyers should avoid nonessential travel to China. The disease originated in the Chinese city of Wuhan, and there have been five cases of the virus confirmed in the U.S., the CDC said. None of the confirmed cases have been in Texas.


Airport officials will screen passengers from China for symptoms of the virus — which are similar to flu-like symptoms — and also educate flyers on what to do if they exhibit symptoms later on.


American Airlines Group Inc. (Nasdaq: AAL) is the only carrier that flies directly to China from DFW, according to airport research. An American spokesperson said Tuesday morning the carrier's China schedule has not changed.


American services Beijing and Shanghai — two eastern China cities. No carrier flies directly to Wuhan, located in central China.


Although American is not adjusting its China schedule, it is taking steps to accommodate wary travelers.


American is waiving change fees for passengers adjusting their China travel plans. Customers are eligible for a waived changed fee if they purchased tickets by Jan. 24 and are scheduled to travel through Feb. 29.