Girlfriend frantically pours bottles of CORONA away apparently claiming they spread Coronavirus in bizarre video 
 THIS is the hilarious moment a girlfriend frantically pours Corona beers down the sink claiming it spreads the killer coronavirus.

The prank video shows a woman wearing a medical face mask and gloves opening the Mexican beers yelling "I'm getting rid of the virus."

In the baffling clip she claims the virus must come the beers because they share a moniker.

It starts with influencer Brad Holmes approaching his girlfriend Jen Davies asking her what she's doing as she tells him "get back now".

As she hastily appears to open the 13th bottle she yells: "I'm trying to get rid of the virus in this house."

Brad can be heard cackling as she continues to dump his beer down the sink and explains the beer has nothing to do with the virus that has killed more than 100.

He begs Jen to stop pouring his beers down the sink as she claims she's protective wearing the mask and gloves.

 

 Brad, who has more than 112,000 followers on Instagram, laughs as he explains the coronavirus doesn't come from Mexico even though the lager does.

His prank video has been viewed more than 4.2million times on Facebook as the couple appeared to poke fun at the names between the beer and bug being similar.

Prankster Brad regularly shares videos of him tricking his girlfriend online for his hundreds of thousands of followers across his social media platforms.

The Wuhan coronavirus is now confirmed to have infected at least 4,500 people around the world.

Cases have also been reported in several other countries, including Australia, France, Japan, Thailand, and the United States.

Now a report written by an expert at the University of Toronto has said the “best case scenario” is that the outbreak dies down after summer this year.

While there have been almost 5,000 confirmed cases of coronavirus already in January, experts believe the actual number of Chinese cases is likely to be more than 25,000.

Genetic analysis of the coronavirus has led scientists to think humans caught it from snakes, with the snakes catching the bug from bats.