Democrats offer mixed reactions to Trump's Mideast peace plan 
 Congressional Democrats offered varying responses Tuesday to President Trump Donald John TrumpWarren: Dershowitz presentation 'nonsensical,' 'could not follow it' Bolton told Barr he was concerned Trump did favors for autocrats: report Dershowitz: Bolton allegations would not constitute impeachable offense MORE’s Middle East peace plan, ranging from cautious optimism to outright rejection.

On one end, Speaker Nancy Pelosi Nancy PelosiHouse passes bill aimed at bolstering Holocaust education Hillicon Valley — Presented by Philip Morris International — NFL social media accounts hacked | Dem questions border chief over controversial Facebook group | Clinton says Zuckerberg has 'authoritarian' views Meadows: Republicans who break with Trump could face political repercussions MORE (D-Calif.) said the Trump administration’s proposed resolution to decades-old Israeli-Palestinian conflict provides some areas of “common ground” for Democrats to get behind and support.

“If there’s a possibility for peace we want to give it a chance,” Pelosi said following the president’s unveiling of the plan at the White House alongside Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu Benjamin (Bibi) NetanyahuMORE.

The White House sent over a two-page brief to lawmakers, Pelosi said, shortly before the unveiling, with the speaker saying it “whet our appetite” to view the plan in full.

“On the first read of these two pages, there appears to be a basis for negotiations,” Pelosi said. “So let us be optimistic and hopeful and let us pray for peace.”

House Democrats said they were initially heartened by the inclusion of calling for a two-state solution, a policy priority that administration officials had earlier shied away from endorsing while formulating the plan.

House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Eliot Engel Eliot Lance EngelTrump to release Israeli-Palestinian peace plan on Tuesday US officials, world leaders arrive in Israel for World Holocaust Forum  House Democrats may call new impeachment witnesses if Senate doesn't MORE (D-N.Y.), said his initial viewing of the two-page summary “gives me some hope.”

“One of the expressions I always like to use is the devil is in the detail: We’ve seen the proposal, I haven’t looked at it extensively. There’s some good room for hope there,” Engel said.

Rep. Ted Deutch Theodore (Ted) Eliot DeutchUS officials, world leaders arrive in Israel for World Holocaust Forum  Bipartisan lawmakers condemn Iran, dispute State Department on number of protesters killed Bipartisan lawmakers introduce amendment affirming US commitment to military aid to Israel MORE (D-Fla.), chairman of the House Foreign Affairs subcommittee on the Middle East, North Africa and International Terrorism, said he had a brief conversation with White House officials Tuesday morning ahead of the roll out and was encouraged by key aspects of the plan.

“Certainly, it seems to preserve that possibility of a two-state solution,” Deutch said. “The president spoke openly about a Palestinian state, he also spoke at length about meeting Israel’s security needs, I believe and hope conversation can continue and lead to negotiations between the parties.”

But on the other side of the Capitol, several Senate Democrats slammed the proposal after Trump's announcement from the White House.

Sen. Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth Ann WarrenWarren: Dershowitz presentation 'nonsensical,' 'could not follow it' On The Money: Stocks close with steep losses driven by coronavirus fears | Tax season could bring more refund confusion | Trump's new wins for farmers may not undo trade damage Overnight Energy: Sanders scores highest on green group's voter guide | Trump's latest wins for farmers may not undo trade damage | Amazon employees defy company to speak on climate change MORE (D-Mass.), who is seeking the party’s presidential nomination, ripped the administration's plan, arguing it offered no real future for a Palestinian state.

Warren tweeted that Trump's proposal was a "rubber stamp" for future annexation of Palestinian-held territory by Israeli forces, adding that she would oppose any plan that, like Trump's, was not crafted with Palestinian negotiators at the table.

"Trump's 'peace plan' is a rubber stamp for annexation and offers no chance for a real Palestinian state. Releasing a plan without negotiating with Palestinians isn't diplomacy, it's a sham. I will oppose unilateral annexation in any form—and reverse any policy that supports it," she tweeted.

Sen. Chris Van Hollen Christopher (Chris) Van HollenSteyer would have owed M more in taxes under lawmakers' proposal: liberal group Democrats step up pressure over witnesses after Bolton bombshell Fox's Napolitano: There is 'ample and uncontradicted' evidence supporting Trump's removal from office MORE (D-Md.) called Trump’s proposal an “anti-peace plan,” arguing it is “one-sided,” to the detriment of Palestinians.

Trump has urged Palestinian leaders publicly to support the plan. Palestinian officials have so far rejected the Trump administration's requests to begin negotiations.