Don’t Fail Because You Didn’t Do Your History Homework: What We Can Learn About The Current Market Setup 
 Getty
New year, same story: U.S. equity markets have performed strongly and all three major averages, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the SP 500, and the Nasdaq, have increased their distance from key support levels (measured here by the 200-Day Moving Average). But, as indexes become more extended from support and are being driven by recent fears about the coronavirus outbreak in China, investors are increasingly nervous that the market is entering a correction. At William O’Neil + Company, we like to observe what the current market action is telling us and not try to predict what we think will happen. And while the current pullback is not unexpected, we think it’s informative to get a sense of how these indices have previously performed in similar setups.
What history can tell us
The Dow is currently roughly 5% above its 200-DMA. Over the last 120 years, the index has been 8–10% above this level on approximately 7% of days and 8% or more above it on about 23% of days. When the index has previously been this extended, average four-, eight-, 13-, and 26-week forward returns are all positive and in line with average DJIA returns for these time periods (see table below). In particular, 26-week returns are slightly below the average of 3.5% at +3.1%.
Dow Jones Industrial Average Summary 
Dow Jones Industrial Average Summary 
William O'Neil + Co.Some of Dow’s outperformance once it is extended dates back to volatile periods in the early-to-mid 1900s. Discounting those periods, we’ll look at the SP 500 and Nasdaq going back about half as long. 
The SP 500 is currently 7% above its 200-DMA. Since, 1962, the index has been 10–12% above this level on about 6% of days and 10% or more extended on about 15% of days. The SP 500 performs better when it is above its 200-DMA than when it is below it. The index’s best performance occurs when it is actually less than 20% below its 200-DMA, and it is weakest when it is either slightly above or slightly below it. 
SP 500 Summary
SP 500 Summary
William O'Neil + Co.The Nasdaq is currently 11% above its 200-DMA. The index has been 12–15% above this level on about 7% of days since 1972 and 12% or more above it in about 19% of days. Interestingly, for the Nasdaq, how much the index is extended matters less in terms of performance than for the SP 500 or the Dow. Whether above or below the 200-DMA, the index’s forward 26-week returns are similar. 
Nasdaq Summary
Nasdaq Summary
William O'Neil + Co.Has the long-awaited pullback begun?
So are markets at risk of becoming too extended at these levels? History is telling us no. It seems that indices have not historically, on average, seen negative returns when they are this extended from support. In fact, overall, trading above the 200-DMA is a sign of positive momentum and can often portend further gains. We think investors should reserve their concern for when indices fall below key support. 
However, we were surprised to see results that show forward averages have been not only good, but in some cases better than average, once indices become as extended as they are now. And while U.S. stocks appear to be starting a long-anticipated pullback, it is important to note that, following years in which the SP 500 gained at least 20%, January had average drawdown (high-to-low) of 4%. Through Monday, January 27 of this year, the SP 500 was down around 3.5% from recent highs to lows. 
So overall, we believe this is normal action and not indicative of a breakdown in the long-term underlying bull market or a change in the medium-term uptrend. Investors should instead look for opportunities to enter some of the long-term secular winners that we see continuing to lead this bull market. 
Stocks to watch as the market corrects
Despite the extended indices, some stocks are buyable at the moment and are emerging out of sound bases. A few we are watching include Alamo (ALG), American Tower (AMT), Atlassian (TEAM), Avalara (AVLR), Chipotle (CMG), Euronet Worldwide (EEFT), Fleetcor (FLT), Intuit (INTU), Motorola Solutions (MSI), Qualcomm (QCOM), TJX (TJX), Trade Desk (TTD), Viavi (VIAV), and YETI (YETI).
DISCLOSURE:
No part of my compensation was, is, or will be directly or indirectly related to the specific recommendations or views expressed herein. William O’Neil + Company, its affiliates, and/or their respective officers, directors, or employees may have interests, or long or short positions, and may at any time make purchases or sales as a principal or agent of the securities referred to herein.