US health officials tell Purell to stop claiming its hand sanitizer can prevent Ebola and MRSA 
 The FDA sent a warning letter to Gojo Industries, Purell's parent company, telling the company to stop claiming that its hand sanitizer can prevent diseases like Ebola and MRSA.Gojo said it will remove the misleading language from its website. Some of the claims the FDA objected to appear to have already been removed from the corporate website.The CDC officially recommends people wash their hands with Purell only if soap and water are not available.Visit Insider's homepage for more stories.As the US braces for more cases of the coronavirus and weathers a severe flu season, health officials are calling out Purell for overstating the cleansing capabilities of its hand sanitizer.



The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a warning letter to Gojo Industries, Purell's parent company, warning the company to stop claiming it can prevent Ebola, norovirus, and MRSA.The letter said the company had no evidence to support various claims made on Purell marketing materials, including the product description, which said Purell "kills more than 99.99% of most common germs that may cause illness in a healthcare setting, including MRSA & VRE [a severe bacterial infection]" and "demonstrated effectiveness against a drug resistant clinical strain of Candida auris in lab testing." It also claimed to reduce student absent days by 51%.In the week since the warning was sent out, some of the claims the FDA objected to appear to have been removed from the corporate website.



Hand sanitizer is helpful, but it is no match for hand-washingHand sanitizer, while helpful during flu season, does not have any long-lasting effects. And while it is helpful on the go, it doesn't beat washing with soap and water, which can prevent norovirus and kill bacteriums.One 2018 paper even found that several strains of bacteria were becoming "more tolerant" of alcohol-based hand sanitizers — and could one day be resistant to them, the way superbugs are resistant to antibiotics. But, for now, it is an accepted way to stay clean if there is no soap and water available. Using a hand sanitizer with 60% alcohol, like Purell, is one of the CDC's official recommendations for hand hygiene, particularly during flu season.Purell hand sanitizer was originally developed by Gojo in 1988 for hospital and restaurant employees. By 1997 it was being sold to the general public. While other brands like Dr. Bronner's produce their own formulations of hand sanitizers, Purell remains the hand sanitizer with the most name recognition.



According to MarketWatch, the global hand sanitizer market was worth $2.4 billion in 2017 — and will be worth double that in 2024.Samantha Williams, senior director at Gojo, told Insider in a statement that "it is important to emphasize that the FDA letter was not related to the safety or quality of our products, or our manufacturing processes."Nonetheless, Williams says, Gojo has "begun updating relevant websites and other digital content as directed by the FDA."  Read more:



A 4-year-old girl in Iowa went blind after the flu caused a rare disease to impair her brain functionWhat you need to know about China's Wuhan coronavirus and how it could affect youWhen you should be worried about the Wuhan coronavirus, which has killed at least 81 people