New wave of coronavirus 'coming next winter' as Brit scientist develops vaccine 
 A top scientist developing a coronavirus vaccine says that there is a “very good chance” of it being effective but warned of another wave of coronavirus coming next winter.

Prof Robin Shattock, head of mucosal infection and immunity at Imperial College London, is in a battle against time and will start testing a vaccine on animals by the middle of February.

He said that human trials would take place in summer if enough funding is available, and a vaccine could be in place within the year.

Prof Shattock said there could be a second wave of coronavirus next winter across the globe.

He said: "Obviously, it would be great if it's all died off by the end of this spring but we still have to be cautious in case of a worst-case scenario, where there is a second wave globally next winter.

"If that was the size of what's happening in Wuhan, it would cripple the NHS in the UK.

He believes enough vaccines could be made initially for people working in NHS emergency services.

He continued: "We are pretty confident we could make enough material for first responders in the UK, medical staff and paramedics and so on.

"Scaling it up beyond that is a question of finance."

He said current indications were that the vaccine has "a very good chance of being effective" but admitted there is a global race to produce the first vaccine, with the US looking likely to win.

He added: "Having as many options available in the pipeline as possible is prudent.

"We may have a range of things with difficult levels of effectiveness."

Professor Stephen Turner, from Monash University's department of microbiology in Australia, said "pre-clinical testing" has shown great promise for coronavirus vaccines.

He added the current outbreak "has the potential to become a pandemic", adding: "This is because it hasn't been seen by the human population and hence there is no pre-existing immunity, making transmission easier.

"The other area of concern is that fact that while this particular coronavirus appears to have originated in bats, it has the ability to infect and transmit between humans."