Apple: iPhone 11 sales propel company to all-time record revenues 
 Sales of the iPhone 11 propelled Apple to all-time record revenues and earnings for the final three months of 2019, the company reported Tuesday.

Apple’s $91.8bn in quarterly revenue topped analyst expectations thanks to $56bn in iPhone sales. The strong performance marks a rebound for the company, which suffered a rare setback in holiday sales one year ago.

The results cover Apple’s first full quarter of iPhone 11 sales, as well as the key holiday shopping season. Apple has worked over the past year to diversify its revenues and avoid over-reliance on the iPhone, but the device remains the foundation of the company’s business, accounting for 60% of revenues.

Earnings per share of $4.99 also marked a record for the company. The stock price jumped 3% in after-hours trading in response to the strong showing.

Among the sectors that Apple is hoping to expand is subscription services. The company’s new streaming service, which it hopes will rival Netflix and Amazon Prime, launched in November.

The company record 17% growth in revenue from services, to $12.7bn, slightly below analyst expectations.

Wearables have also been an important driver of sales for the company. Toni Sacconaghi of Bernstein Research estimates that Apple sold $6bn worth of the wireless earbuds AirPods in 2019, and projected that number to double in 2020.

Revenues for wearables, home and accessories products grew 37%, to $10bn.

Apple’s reliance on China, both as a market for its products and as a critical part of its supply chain, has proved complicated in recent years. An economic slowdown dampened demand – forcing the company to issue a profits warning in January 2019 that shocked investors and sent its stock price tumbling. The company has also had to navigate the trade dispute between the US and China, and it reputation suffered in October 2019 when it removed a mapping app that was used by protesters in Hong Kong.

Despite these challenges, however, the company’s stock price had an extraordinary year, more than doubling since this time in 2019.

The company will again face questions about China, as the country’s economy is rocked by the outbreak of the coronavirus. Any depressed demand will not be immediately apparent in Tuesday’s results, however, which cover the three months ending 31 December – before the outbreak began.