United Airlines suspends many China flights as coronavirus crisis worsens 
 United Airlines is suspending 24 flights between the United States and China due to the worsening coronavirus crisis in the Asian country.


Chicago-based United (NASDAQ: UAL) said Tuesday it is suspending flights from its hubs at Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport, Dulles International Airport, San Francisco International Airport and Newark Liberty International Airport to three destinations in China — Beijing (PEK), Shanghai (PVG) and Hong Kong (HKG).


            
            
        The suspensions will start Feb. 1 on westbound flights to China and on Feb. 2 on eastbound flights from China to the U.S. The announced flight suspensions in both directions are through Feb. 9. 


But United emphasized it is continuing to monitor the situation as it develops and will adjust flight operations accordingly. 


A spokesman for the carrier said the decision to suspend the flights was based on “a significant decline in demand for travel to China." 


Load factors on the flights have quickly plummeted. United said it would provide full refunds to passengers on cancelled flights or make other arrangements for affected customers.


Media reports in China suggest the crisis has been rapidly worsening. The latest updates show that there are more than 4,500 confirmed cases, with more than 100 deaths attributed to the coronavirus. Reports also suggest the spread of the disease is still far from being brought under control.


Though the flight suspensions represent a significant number of United’s total flights between China from the U.S., the carrier said it will continue to operate a handful of flights “to enable customers to travel between the two countries.”


United has over the past several years aggressively targeted China as a growth region for the carrier in the Asia/Pacific region. China has been one of the world's fastest-growing markets for air travel.


 A prolonged outbreak of coronavirus could put a major wrench in United's plans to grow traffic between the United States and China and compete with an array of China-based carriers.