With Growing Fears About The Coronavirus, Best Ways To Stay Healthy When Flying 
 People wearing masks at the Vladivostok International Airport in Vladivostok, 
Yuri Smityuk/TASSThe deadly coronavirus continues to spread from a wildlife market in central China to many countries. Still, many of us need to and want to fly. And when we do we can head off most health problems with these simple precautions:
Stay Informed
Know where the quarantines are, what's cancelled, and what to do, especially if you've planned a trip to Asia. 
Consider flight length
The odds for catching a dreaded virus are miniscule, but colds and flu, other airborne viruses, and bacterial infections spread easily in a plane’s closed environment and recirculating air. And the longer the flight, the more time for problems. If your flight is long-haul (say 14 hours or more), consider breaking it up with some landed stops.
Avoid stress. Pay extra if needed
If flying with more space and ease is an affordable priority, think of upgrades as a kind of health insurance.
Choose a Window Seat
According to researchers, passengers in aisle seats are more likely to come into contact with communicable viruses, because you’re closer to more passengers. Also, if you sit by the window, you’re more likely to stay put (aside from having better views). 
Fly rested
Get enough sleep before the flight to keep up your body’s natural immunity, and avoid diuretics like coffee, tea or alcohol so that you sleep well. On the plane, wear comfy clothes and consider sleep aids such as eye masks and doctor-approved sleep meds.
Carry health gear
To prepare for any situation, pre-pack a kit of sanitizer, tissues, masks, disposable gloves, wrap-around sunglasses, and be sure to put them in your carry-on. 
Avoid exposure to coughs and sneezes
If someone is coughing and sneezing in your face, ask flight attendants to move your seat, if possible. At least offer your health gear to the carrier to help others was well as yourself. 
I have offered my masks to those who cough, and have used them myself in flight. Those of us who travel in Asian countries know that this is a standard thing (and one that should be emulated).
Disinfect/Be Cautious 
The dirtiest spots on an airplane include: tray tables, air vents, seatbelt buckles, restrooms, and seatback pockets. Germs are everywhere—so use disinfectant wipes and hand sanitizers, and wash your hands when you use the lavoratory.
Tray tables, bathrooms, and other germ-gathering surfaces do get wiped down after flights. But to be safe, wipe down the tray table and environs and don't eat anything directly off the surface. 
Your clothes are a natural barrier between you and most cloth surfaces. But touch as little as possible. Use disinfecting wipes anywhere in your vicinity where bare skin meets surface. Microbes last up to a week on porous material like seats and seat pockets, which are often stuffed with used material from previous flights, so don't overlook cleaning them. 
In the lav, use paper barriers on door locks and surfaces, and wash up thoroughly, especially on international flights. In epidemic situations a physician’s style wash-up – soaping up to mid-forearm or even elbow — is best.
Drink water, not alcohol
Superdry air on a plane can dry out your mucus membranes, which keeps them from trapping germs. So stay hydrated.
Note that soft drinks, booze, coffee and tea are all diuretics, but you can sub with juices or lots of bottled water. (And if you pee more, you'll also move around more — a good thing.)
Stay warm
Air circulation can keep airborne illness away, but a vent turned on high may chill you. Carry accessible socks, sweater and wraps. I avoid in-flight blankets and pillows: A 2007 study by the Wall Street Journal found that airlines clean their blankets on average every 5 to 30 days.