Miami quarantine station to screen for coronavirus 
 Miami — with its large number of international travelers — is one of 20 cities that will be testing for coronavirus at the quarantine station at Miami International Airport.The outbreak of the mysterious new coronavirus is rapidly spreading, and the U.S. has been screening travelers from the Wuhan at five airports. On Tuesday, public health officials announced additional screening at quarantine stations at 20 airports and land crossings. Miami International Airport had more than 20 million international passengers in 2019 and is expecting about 30,000 tourists this week for the Super Bowl, an airport official said.“The coming days and weeks are likely to bring more cases including the possibility of person-to-person spread,” Dr. Robert Redfield, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, at a news conference in Washington D.C. “Our goal is to contain this virus and prevent the sustained spread of the virus in our country.”Five individuals in the U.S. have been confirmed with coronavirus, all who had recently traveled to Wuhan, China, where the virus originated and more than 100 people have died and more than 4,500 have symptoms. None of those cases are in Florida.Health officials said they have quickly worked to develop a diagnostic test. More than 100 people in the U.S. have been tested and are awaiting results. Including a student from China with flu-like symptoms who attended a Yale Model United Nations Conference with 1,400 high school students over the weekend, including many from South Florida.In Miami, the quarantine station is staffed by personnel who assess the health of travelers arriving on planes and appearing ill as part of a comprehensive program to limit the spread of contagious diseases in the U.S. Sick individuals can be moved to isolation rooms at the quarantine facilities, or the agency can send them for care at hospitals.Cindy Krischer Goodman can be reached at cgoodman@sunsentinel.com, 954-356-4661, Twitter and Instagram @cindykgoodmanThis is a developing story, so check back for updates. Click here to have breaking news alerts sent directly to your inbox.