President Trump gets mad at Fox News again, promotes OANN 
 The President is spatting with Fox News again, and he wants the long-running conservative cable channel to remember he has a side chick who’s younger, less-restrained and absolutely crazy about him.After blasting Fox News Tuesday morning because they had the audacity to interview Democrats while his impeachment trial is in progress, Trump re-tweeted a story from One American News Network.“Really pathetic how @FoxNews is trying to be so politically correct by loading the airwaves with Democrats like Chris Van Hollen, the no name Senator from Maryland,” Trump wrote, naming the senator. “He has been on forever playing up the Impeachment Hoax."Trump followed up with a tweet praising the value of social media and predicting Fox’s alleged betrayal of him would lead to the demise of the network which impeachment coverage has largely been very friendly to the president.“So, what the hell has happened to @FoxNews. Only I know!” he wrote. “Chris Wallace and others should be on Fake News CNN or MSDNC. How’s Shep Smith doing? Watch, this will be the beginning of the end for Fox, just like the other two which are dying in the ratings. Social Media is great!”That tirade prompted Trump supporters to suggest he turn the channel to OANN — the far-right cable station that launched on July 4, 2013. Leading the charge was controversial conspiracy theorist Jack Posobiec, who directed Trump to One America News Network and included Fox News in that tweet.OANN and Trump supporters followed that lead.“OANN needs to be on more provider’s (sic),” tweeted one conservative politics watcher.Others weighed in to complain OANN isn’t part of their basic cable packages.A few hours later, Trump re-tweeted an OANN story about Johnson  Johnson’s search for a coronavirus vaccine.The president had heavily retweeted Posobiec’s obsequious Monday night coverage of people waiting camping out in Wildwood, N.J., for Trump’s Tuesday visit.OANN has been consistently supportive of Trump, who returns the favor by re-tweeting its stories.In May, CNN’s Brian Stelter noted, “In the past couple of months, Trump has tweeted about Fox-wannabe OANN 7 times — after going two years without tagging the channel once. Makes you wonder: Does he think he can play Fox and OANN off each other?”New York Magazine, The Daily Beast, Vox and The Guardian have taken long looks at Trump’s affair with OANN since he came to power.Trump also tweeted about his peace plan for the Middle East and his impeachment trial Tuesday.