Apple could see some impact from coronavirus in China, Cook says 
 Not even Apple is immune from the coronavirus sweeping across the globe, with its suppliers and stores impacted by the deadly disease.

Apple CEO Tim Cook on Tuesday said the company has suppliers in the Wuhan region of China where the coronavirus first emerged. Apple has alternative sources for those components, he said, and it's "working on mitigation plans to make up any expected production loss."

What's less clear is how the coronavirus will impact suppliers in other parts of China, he said. The Chinese government extended the New Year holiday break from the end of January to Feb. 10, which will delay the startup in Apple supplier factories, Cook said.

"The situation is emerging, and we're still gathering lots of data points and monitoring it very closely," Cook said during an earnings call with analysts. He noted that as of last week, Apple had limited employee travel to effected areas to only "business critical situations."

Apple also closed one store in China because of the coronavirus, and "a number" of its retail partners have also closed their retail locations, Cook said. "Many of the stores that remain open have also reduced operating hours," Cook said, and the company is taking extra precautions for its staff and customers. It's frequently deep cleaning its stores and conducting temperature checks for retail workers to make sure they remain healthy.

"While our sales within the Wuhan area itself are small, retail traffic has also been impacted outside of this area across the country in the last few days.," Cook said.

Apple factored the possible supplier and retail traffic impact into its revenue guidance for the March quarter, which -- at $63 billion to $67 billion -- is a bigger range than what it normally provides. Even with the possible impact, Apple's projection is higher than the $62.45 billion expected by analysts.

A never-before-seen virus first detected in the Chinese city of Wuhan has claimed over 100 lives and infected over 4,500 Chinese citizens with a pneumonia-like illness, according to China's National Health Commission. The virus, known as 2019-nCoV, was first reported to the World Health Organization on Dec. 31 and has been under investigation since. Chinese scientists have linked the disease to a family of viruses known as coronaviruses, which include the deadly SARS and Middle East respiratory syndrome.

The virus since has spread to Europe, Australia and the US.

Scientists have yet to fully understand the destructive potential of the new virus, known as 2019-nCoV. Researchers and investigators are just beginning to figure out where it originated, how it's transmitted and how far it has spread.