USA Public Enemy #1 Huawei Leads As 5G Phone Shipments Hit 19 Million 
 5G is certainly over-hyped, maybe overrated. But it’s increasingly also real.
Shipments of 5G-enabled smartphones hit 19 million in 2019, according to new data from Strategy Analytics: much higher demand than expected.
The top-selling 5G brand?
The U.S. government’s apparent public enemy number one in telecommunications: Huawei.
A folding dual-screen smartphone
Photo by Mika Baumeister on UnsplashHuawei captured 36.9% of the 5G handset market, followed closely by Samsung with 35.8%. Vivo and Xiaomi, two other Chinese conglomerates, had 10.7% and 6.5%, respectively, with LG and others adding small bits of share.
“Global 5G smartphone shipments grew from zero in 2018 to 18.7 million units in 2019,” say Ken Hyers, director at Strategy Analytics. “Demand for 5G smartphones is higher than many expected ... other regions, like the U.S. and Europe, are lagging behind Asia, but we expect them to close the gap later this year.”
Driving this faster adoption? 
Vendor competition in China, Hyers says, plus heavy carrier subsidies in South Korea. And in China, the leadership of Huawei.
Global 5G smartphone market share
Strategy AnalyticsHuawei just recently won the right to provide equipment for the United Kingdom’s 5G national network, with some restrictions. That’s something U.S. officials had been lobbying against, and lawmakers such as Tom Cotton and Lindsey Graham have expressed regret about the decision, saying it will potentially harm intelligence sharing and other joint U.S.-UK relations.
Most of the adoption has been in China and South Korea so far. Samsung and LG have sold some 5G phones in the U.S., but a mass roll-out is still in the future.
The big question mark?
How Apple will impact the 5G picture in 2020.
Apple usually releases new phones in late summer or early fall, and those are expected to have 5G capability.
“Upcoming 5G models from Apple iPhone and other big brands mean 5G will be the hottest part of the worldwide smartphone market this year,” says Neil Mawston, Executive Director at Strategy Analytics. “However, the recent coronavirus scare is currently restricting trade in some parts of China and this may well cause a slowdown in 5G supply or demand across Asia or worldwide during the first half of 2020. Industry players should be prepared for bumpy 5G sales in some markets.”
Huawei shipped 6.9 million 5G smartphones worldwide in 2019.
The question is: how will that market share grow in 2020? And, with the Chinese company’s increasing leadership role in 5G, how successful will the U.S. government’s efforts to limit its international penetration be?