Morning Briefing: Top stories from on Jan 29 
 Good morning! Here are our top stories to kick-start your Wednesday, Jan 29.



 A worker monitors screens for fever signs on passengers detected by infrared detectors at Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan on Jan 21, 2020. PHOTO: EPA-EFE 



How many people live close to the epicentre of the virus? Did the disease come from snakes and bats?



 People queueing to buy masks at Mustafa Centre on Jan 28, 2020. ST PHOTO: DESMOND WEE 



The Government is monitoring the situation closely and will do more if necessary, he said.



 Anyone flouting the quarantine for the first time may be fined up to $10,000, jailed up to six months, or both. The penalty is higher for subsequent breaches. The $100 allowance is not given to tourists who are quarantined. ST PHOTO: JASON QUAH 



The $100 allowance is not given to tourists who are quarantined.



 (From left) ST Logistics' head of the Healthcare Vertical Tang Chien Her, Senior Minister of State for Health Lam Pin Min, FairPrice group CEO Seah Kian Peng, Fairprice group Chief Procurement Officer Tng Ah Yiam and ST Logistics CEO Loganathan Ramasamy at a warehouse where masks are stockpiled. PHOTO: MINISTRY OF HEALTH 



Some retailers have started to ration the sale of masks in packages with a smaller quantity to prevent unnecessary hoarding.



 A staff member screens the body temperatures of arriving passengers at the Changi Airport in Singapore on Jan 22, 2020. PHOTO: CHANGI AIRPORT 



MOM has rejected more than 30 new work pass applications as of Tuesday.



 A poster informing passengers as they arrive at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport on Jan 21, 2020, that there is coronavirus-screening ahead. PHOTO: EPA-EFE 



More than 400,000 people have signed a petition to ban Chinese nationals from entering the country.



 Teo Ghim Heng strangled his wife and daughter before spending a week with their bodies in their Woodlands flat. PHOTO: ST FILE 



Teo Ghim Heng had strangled his wife after she scolded him for being "useless", and then strangled his daughter.

Next-generation business owners and founders of fast-growing companies are set to benefit from the changes.



 Mr Benjamin Toh, one of Singapore's hikikomori, has spent 10 years behind this door, living in self-imposed isolation. ST PHOTO: CHERYL TEH 



"I do not want to leave this room and no one can make me."



 Whether it is climate change, race and religion, or lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) rights, chances are, one will find people of the younger generation at the forefront of the cause. ST PHOTO: JASMINE CHOONG 



Recent studies suggest that on some sociopolitical issues, the gap is unprecedented.