Ebola nurse victim makes chilling warning about coronavirus contagion risk 
 A Spanish healthcare worker who got Ebola by handling infected patients has issued a warning to hospitals preparing for the coronavirus.

Teresa Romero, 50, survived after being infected with the Ebola virus after she treated two victims who turned up at the hospital Carlos III of Madrid in the Spanish capital during the 2015 outbreak.

The nurse, who spent a month in quarantine, now says she hopes lessons have been learned and the country’s health system is ready to face the new threat of the coronavirus – which has so far claimed 80 lives.

Speaking to local TV channel Antena 3, she said: “I hope the health system is ready to face it”, and added that she and other medical professionals were working to reduce the risks of contagion.

"I hope nobody with the virus comes," she said. "But if we are going to have a case, I do not think it will get so far, I think they are doing the things properly.”

There have been a reported 4,682 cases of coronavirus worldwide, with just four in Europe.

Ms Romero said when she was working as a nursing assistant in Madrid facing Ebola virus, they were working with an unknown disease and they acted “without a defined protocol”.

She said they had made simple mistakes like when they helped one another to dress and undress, adding “we were learning from mistakes”.

Speaking about her case with Ebola, she said: “We left the suffering behind, but I have needed a lot of psychological help, I have got out from the well I was stuck in.”

She admitted that was worried when she first became ill and was hospitalised, saying: “I suspected something from the symptoms, I was sick, vomiting, had diarrhoea, but I was aware when I saw my mobile phone to find more information.

"El Pais (Spanish newspaper) published that a nurse had been reported as positive, I was not told.

“There are moments of panic and calmness, moments of remembering the missionaries who were infected, I thought I had the same fate.”

She added: “I remember a night that I was very tired, and I was in the bed and it was one of the hardest moments I can remember as I could feel as if death was over my shoulder and if I decided to turn around, it would catch me.”

She remembers that one day when she was tired she asked the hospital staff to “help me die, but they did not do it”.

Teresa had to be a month in isolation after becoming the first person outside Africa to contract Ebola while she was part of a team caring for two Spanish priests who had returned to Madrid with the virus.

More than 50 people have now been tested for coronavirus in the UK, according to the Department of Health (DoH), although all tests have returned negative.

As of Sunday afternoon, some 52 people across England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland have been tested for the deadly flu-like virus.

The current risk to the public remains low, the department said, adding that the Government is continuing to monitor the situation closely.