“Antiviral Agent And Method For Treating Viral Infection” in Patent Application Approval Process (USPTO 20190330635): Patent Application 
 2019 NOV 18 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Cancer Gene Therapy Daily -- A patent application by the inventors Huang, Li-Min (Taipei City, TW); Huang, Shih-Han (Taipei City, TW), filed on January 24, 2018, was made available online on October 31, 2019, according to news reporting originating from Washington, D.C., by NewsRx correspondents.

This patent application has not been assigned to a company or institution.

The following quote was obtained by the news editors from the background information supplied by the inventors: “The invention relates to antisense oligonucleotides for use in treating virus infection and antiviral treatment methods employing the oligonucleotides.

“Bacterial and viral infections remain major problems for human health (Morens and Fauci, 2013). Treatment of bacterial infections largely relies on antibiotics (Bassetti et al., 2016; Bush and Bradford, 2016), whereas the mainstay of antiviral therapy remains supportive care and placating the symptoms. Moreover, emerging and re-emerging pathogens continue to plague humans as a consequence of the continued encroachment of civilization on wild areas. The lack of timely available antiviral agents has complicated the management of viral outbreaks, and thus the development of broad-spectrum antiviral strategies is highly desired (Vigant et al., 2015).

“At present, only several antiviral agents are available. The current antiviral agents initially act on specific viral gene products, such as human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) protease and reverse transcriptase and hepatitis C non-structural proteins, to interfere with viral replication (O’Connor et al., 2017; Spengler, 2017). Moreover, new antiviral approaches have been developed to target viral-host interactions or cellular components required for viral propagation, such as inhibiting viral entry and fusion with the host plasma membrane or the activity of viral polymerases, or manipulating the host immune response (Brito and Pinney, 2017; Ko et al., 2017; Prasad et al., 2017).

“However, there is still an unmet need for a broad-spectrum antiviral agent that can effectively treat viral infection caused by a variety of virus despite the highly mutagenic characteristic of virus.”

In addition to the background information obtained for this patent application, NewsRx journalists also obtained the inventors’ summary information for this patent application: “In view of the foregoing, an antiviral agent is provided. The antiviral agent comprises a nucleotide derivative complementary to a mammalian relative of DnaJ (MRJ) gene, wherein the nucleotide derivative comprises at least one nucleotide with a sugar moiety being substituted with morpholine.

“In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the nucleotide derivative is a morpholino oligomer. In another embodiment of the present disclosure, the nucleotides in the nucleotide derivative are morpholino nucleotides.

“In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the nucleotide derivative in the antiviral agent is complementary to intron 8 of the MRJ gene. In another embodiment of the present disclosure, the nucleotide derivative is complementary to 5’ splice site region of intron 8 of the MRJ gene. In yet another embodiment of the present disclosure, the MRJ gene is human MRJ gene.

“In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the nucleotide derivative in the antiviral agent comprises about 20 to about 40 nucleotides. In another embodiment of the present disclosure, the nucleotide derivative is no more than 30 nucleotides in length. In yet another embodiment of the present disclosure, the nucleotide derivative is 25 nucleotides in length.

“In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the nucleotide derivative comprises SEQ ID NO: 1. In another embodiment of the present disclosure, the nucleotide derivative may be a sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, that is, the nucleotide derivative consists of a sequence that is exactly SEQ ID NO: 1 with no additional sequence. In another aspect of the present disclosure, a use of the antiviral agent in treating a disease or a condition associated with viral infection in a subject in need thereof is provided.

“In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the viral infection is caused by a virus selected from the group consisting of cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1), human immunodeficiency virus-2 (/HIV-2), human metapneumovirus, human parainfluenza virus (HPIV), influenza virus, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), adenovirus, rhinovirus, coronavirus, enterovirus 71 (EV-71), Enterovirus D68 (EV-D68), coxsackievirus, dengue virus, Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), and any combination thereof. In another embodiment of the present disclosure, the viral infection is caused by CMV, EBV, HIV, influenza virus, RSV or any combination thereof. In yet another embodiment of the present disclosure, the viral infection is caused by RSV.

“In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the disease or the condition associated with viral infection is selected from the group consisting of retinitis (caused by, e.g., CMV), colitis (caused by, e.g., CMV), infectious mononucleosis (caused by, e.g., CMV and EBV), Hodgkin’s lymphoma (caused by, e.g., EBV), Burkitt’s lymphoma (caused by, e.g., EBV), nasopharyngeal carcinoma (caused by, e.g., EBV), acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS; caused by, e.g., HIV-1 and HIV-2), upper respiratory tract infection (URI), lower respiratory tract infection (LRI; caused by, e.g., HPIV, adenovirus, RSV, coronavirus, rhinovirus, and EV-D68), myocarditis (caused by, e.g., coxsackievirus), encephalitis (caused by, e.g., EV-71, EV-D68, dengue virus, and JEV), dengue hemorrhagic fever and dengue shock syndrome (DHF/DSS; caused by, e.g., dengue virus), and any combination thereof. In another embodiment of the present disclosure, the disease or condition associated with viral infection is URI or LRI.

“In another aspect of the present disclosure, a method for suppressing viral infection is provided. The method comprises administering the antiviral agent to a subject in need thereof. In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the viral infection may be caused by CMV, EBV, HIV, influenza virus, RSV or any combination thereof.

“In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the method further comprises administering an additional antiviral therapy to the subject. In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the additional antiviral therapy may be selected from the group consisting of carbovir, acyclovir, interferon, stavudine, 3’-azido-2’,3’-dideoxy-5-methyl-cytidine (CS-92), .beta.-D-dioxolane nucleosides, oseltamivir phosphate, and any combination thereof.

“In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the method further comprises administering an antibiotic to the subject when the subject has a secondary bacterial infection.

“The antiviral agent of the present disclosure is useful in the treatment of viral infection, particularly the infection caused by human RSV, which is a major cause of viral bronchiolitis and pneumonia in infants and the elderly worldwide, and human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1).”

The claims supplied by the inventors are:

“1. An antiviral agent comprising a nucleotide derivative complementary to a mammalian relative of DnaJ (MRJ) gene, wherein the nucleotide derivative comprises at least one nucleotide with a sugar moiety being substituted with morpholine.

“2. The antiviral agent according to claim 1, wherein the nucleotide derivative is complementary to intron 8 of the MRJ gene.

“3. The antiviral agent according to claim 1, wherein the nucleotides in the nucleotide derivative are morpholino nucleotides.

“4. The antiviral agent according to claim 1, wherein the nucleotide derivative comprises SEQ ID NO: 1.

“5. The antiviral agent according to claim 1, wherein the nucleotide derivative consists of a sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1.

“6. The antiviral agent of claim 1 for use in treating a disease or a condition associated with viral infection in a subject in need thereof.

“7. The antiviral agent according to claim 6, wherein the viral infection is caused by a virus selected from the group consisting of cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1), human immunodeficiency virus-2 (HIV-2), human metapneumovirus, human parainfluenza virus (HPIV), influenza virus, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), adenovirus, rhinovirus, coronavirus, enterovirus 71 (EV-71), Enterovirus D68 (EV-D68), coxsackievirus, dengue virus, Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), and any combination thereof.

“8. The antiviral agent according to claim 7, wherein the viral infection is caused by CMV, EBV, HIV, influenza virus, RSV or any combination thereof.

“9. The antiviral agent according to claim 8, wherein the viral infection is caused by RSV.

“10. The antiviral agent according to claim 6, wherein the disease or the condition is selected from the group consisting of retinitis, colitis, infectious mononucleosis, Hodgkin’s lymphoma, Burkitt’s lymphoma, nasopharyngeal carcinoma, acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), lower respiratory tract infection (LRI), myocarditis, encephalitis, dengue hemorrhagic fever and dengue shock syndrome (DHF/DSS), and any combination thereof.

“11. A method for suppressing viral infection, comprising administering the antiviral agent of claim 1 to a subject in need thereof.

“12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the viral infection is caused by a virus selected from the group consisting of cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1), human immunodeficiency virus-2 (HIV-2), human metapneumovirus, human parainfluenza virus (HPIV), influenza virus, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), adenovirus, rhinovirus, coronavirus, enterovirus 71 (EV-71), Enterovirus D68 (EV-D68), coxsackievirus, dengue virus, Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), and any combination thereof.

“13. The method according to claim 11, wherein the viral infection is caused by RSV.

“14. The method according to claim 11, further comprising administering an additional antiviral therapy to the subject.

“15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the additional antiviral therapy is selected from the group consisting of carbovir, acyclovir, interferon, stavudine, 3’-azido-2’,3’-dideoxy-5-methyl-cytidine (CS-92), .beta.-D-dioxolane nucleosides, oseltamivir phosphate, and any combination thereof.”

URL and more information on this patent application, see: Huang, Li-Min; Huang, Shih-Han. Antiviral Agent And Method For Treating Viral Infection. Filed January 24, 2018 and posted October 31, 2019. Patent URL: http://appft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO1&Sect2=HITOFF&d=PG01&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsrchnum.html&r=1&f=G&l=50&s1=%2220190330635%22.PGNR.&OS=DN/20190330635&RS=DN/20190330635


(Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world.)