Air New Zealand share price drop follows international trend as coronavirus spooks investors 
 Air New Zealand shares have dropped nearly 3 per cent this week following a global trend in falling airline stocks as investors react to growing concerns about the spread of a new type of virus from China.

A new coronavirus, which was first reported reported in China on December 31 and spreads via human-to-human transmission, has so far killed six people and affected 300 more.

Reported symptoms of the pneumonia-causing virus, currently called 2019-nCoV, are mainly fever and difficulty in breathing.

Countries with confirmed cases of the virus from Wuhan include Thailand, Japan and South Korea. In China, Shenzhen and Beijing have also reported importations, the Ministry of Health says.

​READ MORE:

 * First case of deadly Chinese coronavirus in US

 * No NZ airport screening for cases of China's coronavirus

The United States has also just reported its first case.

Shares of US airlines that fly to China fell on Tuesday as investors worried that the virus could spread beyond Asia, like the SARS outbreak in 2002, and impact on travel from Asia.

Yesterday shares of Hawaiian Airlines' parent fell 5.8 per cent, United Airlines dropped 4.3 per cent, American Airlines fell 3.9 per cent, and Delta declined 3 per cent.

Air New Zealand shares have fallen nearly 3 per cent since Monday.

Air New Zealand operates daily direct flights from Auckland to Shanghai and direct flights from Auckland to Beijing, operated by alliance partner Air China, departing several times a week.

Other airlines to fly between China and Air New Zealand include Air China, China Eastern Airlines, China Southern and TianJin Airlines.

On Wednesday an Air New Zealand spokeswoman said if the situation became more serious, it was ready to implement any measures required.

The airline was taking its lead from the Ministry of Health, she said.

Shares in Australian carrier Qantas, which flies to Beijing and Shanghai, were down nearly 4 per cent this week.

Auckland International Airport shares have also fallen 1.5 per cent Since Monday, currently trading at $8.93.

About 350,000 to 400,000 Chinese visitors pass through Auckland Airport every year.

An Auckland Airport spokesman said it had been advised by the Ministry of Health there were no travel restrictions in place.

"The airport encourages any travellers experiencing symptoms suggestive of respiratory illness to seek medical attention and share their travel history with their healthcare provider."

"Anyone seeking more information about the coronavirus outbreak in China is advised to contact the Ministry of Health."

Hamilton Hindin Greene investment advisor Grant Williamson said while it was early days investors were concerned that the virus could have an ongoing effect on air travel.

Some investors were taking a cautious approach and reducing their exposure to stocks which could be impacted should the outbreak worsen, he said

"This virus is quite a threat to the travel and tourism industry and in particular airlines are the ones that do get hit relatively hard."

In 2009 Air New Zealand shares fell on the back of the international swine flu scare and in 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars) resulted in the airline reducing total capacity by about 8 per cent.

At the time international passenger traffic slumped 21 per cent globally and Air New Zealand cancelled flights to Hong Kong for several months in response to the outbreak.

Hong Kong had a travel advisory against non-essential travel at the time to try contain the spread of the virus.