Chinese stocks slump, but airline shares improve amid coronavirus fears 
 Chinese stocks continued to fall Wednesday as a new virus spreads throughout the region, complicating plans for the millions of people traveling over the Lunar New Year.

The Shanghai Composite was down 0.7% in morning trade, making it the region's major outlier.

moved up 0.8% after recording its worst day in more than five months. South Korea's was up 0.5%, while Japan's was 0.5% higher. Other Asian indexes, though, improved: Hong Kong's benchmarkmoved up 0.8% after recording its worst day in more than five months. South Korea'swas up 0.5%, while Japan'swas 0.5% higher.

Wednesday's gains marked a significant improvement over Tuesday's " sea of red ," when stocks in the region were down across the board. That slump came as China confirmed that the new coronavirus can be transmitted between humans.

Chinese airline stocks, which recorded steep losses earlier in the week, were shaky early Wednesday, but later improved. China Southern Airlines fell as much as 1.1% in Shanghai before recovering. In Hong Kong, the stock was up 0.8%, reversing earlier losses.

Shares of Air China were positive in both Shanghai and Hong Kong, with the latter shares last up about 1.2%. China Eastern Airlines was the biggest gainer of the three — its Hong Kong listed shares were last up 2.7%. Shares in Shanghai advanced 0.2%. The country's travel industry is preparing for the possibility that the pneumonia-causing virus could become even more widespread during a busy travel season. The virus — which has killed at least six people and sickened hundreds — originated in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, but has spread throughout the region and reached as far as the United States , China's biggest online travel agency, announced Tuesday that it would waive cancellation fees for trips to Wuhan. That stock, which is traded in New York, plummeted nearly 8% overnight. , China's biggest online travel agency, announced Tuesday that it would waive cancellation fees for trips to Wuhan. That stock, which is traded in New York, plummeted nearly 8% overnight. Meanwhile, China says it is taking more steps to prevent the outbreak from spreading via aircraft. The Civil Aviation Administration of China, the country's airline regulator, on Tuesday instructed Chinese carriers to offer passengers booked on Wuhan flights free cancellations if requested. State media also cited China's rail authorities as saying they are now offering passengers booked on Wuhan trains free cancellations.