How to avoid the deadly coronavirus now in the US 
 The outbreak of a new coronavirus may not have reached pandemic levels yet, but its spread into the US has doctors and government officials bracing for a potential health emergency.

The deadly disease has affected more than 300 people in Asia and killed six so far. And most alarmingly, health officials confirmed that the first US patient — a man traveling from Wuhan, China to Washington state — was diagnosed with the illness, which causes flu-like symptoms.

The smartest thing any patient can do at this point is try not to panic — and keep clean, says Dr. David Hirschwerk, an infectious disease specialist at Northwell Health’s North Shore University Hospital on Long Island.

“The best way that people can protect themselves is by frequent hand washing,” Hirschwerk tells The Post. “Stay clear of people with respiratory illnesses and practice good hand hygiene. If you’re traveling to or near Wuhan, you should avoid all animals as well.”

Hirschwerk says there are many different forms of coronavirus: It can cause a minor common cold and also more severe illnesses like Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) and SARS — which caused a worldwide panic in 2002 and killed 800 people.

This new version, dubbed 2019-nCoV, is also being called the “Wuhan coronavirus,” after the city where the virus reportedly began at a live animal market. Typically these viruses spread from animal-to-animal and animal-to-human.

Photos out of China show concerned patients covering their faces with masks, however it’s still unclear “how easily the virus spreads between people,” the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention noted Tuesday.

The CDC has issued a Level 2 (out of 3) alert, noting the “ongoing outbreak of pneumonia” caused by a new coronavirus, but Hirschwerk says that as with all outbreaks, all we can do right now is use common sense and wait.

“CDC and [World Health Organization] are learning more about this new coronavirus every day,” said New York City Health Commissioner Dr. Oxiris Barbot in a statement. “At this time, the actual risk to New Yorkers is low, but our level of preparedness is high, and we are monitoring the situation daily to determine if our plans to protect New Yorkers need to be adjusted accordingly.”


Although officials have been screening for the novel virus at major airports in New York and California since Jan. 17, the Washington state patient (a man in his 30s) entered the United States before the screening systems were put into place. New screenings are set to launch in Chicago and Atlanta airports, officials announced Tuesday.

Still, the airport devices aren’t foolproof.

“[It] looks for an elevated body temperature,” Hirschwerk tells The Post. “People with fevers, that sort of thing.”

Symptoms include respiratory issues, fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties according to the WHO.

There is currently no treatment for new coronavirus and no preventative vaccine, although the National Institutes of Health told NBC News that there is a vaccine being researched in “very preliminary stages.”

The city’s health department says that to date, there have not been any passengers at JFK who have arrived from or connected to Wuhan who have needed medical attention. But, officials say, New York City is “fully prepared to transport individuals showing symptoms or who receive positive diagnoses as needed.”