What is coronavirus? Symptoms, types and is it contagious? 
 OFFICIALS have warned that fatal coronavirus could sweep the globe after the infection killed six people in China.

Here's what we know about coronavirus.

3

 Medics carry a patient into the Jinyintan hospital, where patients infected by a mysterious SARS-like virus are being treated, in WuhanCredit: AFP or licensors
What is coronavirus?

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that can cause infections ranging from the common cold to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS).

Some of the virus types cause less serious disease, while some - like the one that caused Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) - are far more severe.

It is an airborne virus, spread in a similar way to colds and the flu.

The virus attacks the respiratory system, causing lung lesions.

It is incredibly contagious and is spread through contact with anything the virus is on as well as infected breath, coughs or sneezes.

In 2003 an outbreak of a similar virus, SARS, killed more than 900 around the world within weeks.

The virus may have already spread to Hong Kong, South Korea and Taiwan.

3


How many people have died from coronavirus?

Six people have died - the first were two men aged 61 and 69 in the Chinese city of Wuhan.

Another victim from Wuhan includes an 89-year-old man, who died after experiencing breathing difficulties.

The Wuhan Municipal Health Commission confirmed that a 66-year-old man and a 48-year-old woman died on January 20.

A man in Australia is currently in isolation after he returned from Wuhan and started suffering from a respiratory illness.

He is undergoing tests to determine if the virus has reached Australia.

There are now more than 200 cases, mostly in Wuhan, but it has also been detected in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzen.

The health ministry in Japan confirmed its first case of the disease after a man in his 30s tested positive.

South Korea, Thailand and Taiwan has also reported cases.

3

 A woman wears a mask while walking past the closed Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, which has been linked to cases of coronavirusCredit: Getty Images - Getty
What are the symptoms?

Symptoms are similar to a common cold.

They include:


a runny nose

headache

cough

fever

shortness of breath

chills

body aches



In most cases, you won't know whether you have a Coronavirus or a different cold-causing virus, such as rhinovirus.

But if a coronavirus infection spreads to the lower respiratory tract (your windpipe and your lungs), it can cause pneumonia, especially in older people, people with heart disease or people with weakened immune systems.

There is no vaccine for coronavirus.

STAY PROTECTED
 What are European Health Insurance Cards and can I use my EHIC after Brexit? 

NEED TO KNOW
 The lowdown on Parkinson's and how Michael J Fox's condition is treated 

CRAZY
 What does gaslighting mean and where did it originate from? 

BEDTIME BLUES
 This is the exact time your kids should go to bed - according to their age 

TICKED OFF
 What is Lyme disease? Symptoms, causes  treatment of Justin Bieber's condition 







To help prevent infection, do the same things you do to avoid the common cold such as using alcohol-based anti-bacterial soaps and sprays.

People should also avoid touching their eyes, nose and mouth - and avoid contact with people who are infected.

A coronavirus infection should be treated the same way a cold is treated.