China warns SARS-like virus could 'mutate and spread' as death toll hits nine 
 China warned Wednesday that a SARS-like virus could mutate and spread as the death toll rose to nine and the number of cases reached 440 across the country.

The coronavirus is transmitted via the respiratory tract and there "is the possibility of viral mutation and further spread of the disease", National Health Commission vice minister Li Bin said at a news conference.

Health screenings are being ramped up at Australian airports as a Brisbane man suspected of having the disease is released from isolation.

A Brisbane man being tested for a deadly SARS-like virus has been released from isolation.

He shows no ongoing symptoms and test results are expected in coming days, Queensland Health said.

The man who was placed in isolation at his home flew into Brisbane earlier in January after visiting family in Wuhan, where the virus broke out in December.

A number of Australians have been tested for the deadly coronavirus but there are still no confirmed cases.

Biosecurity measures have been ramped up for flights into the country from China, and the city of Wuhan in particular.

"A number of people have been tested in Australia and found to be negative," federal Health Minister Greg Hunt told Sky News on Wednesday.

Australia receives three flights from Wuhan per week which would be monitored closely, he said.

"(Flights) will be met by biosecurity officers, information given to passengers and the biosecurity officers will be accompanied by health officers," Mr Hunt told the ABC.

"They do have the capacity because of the measures taken to bring people directly to hospital if that were required.

"But we expect that any passengers that do have issues will self-report because it's in their own interests but if not, then there are strong powers."

In the United States a person living in Washington State has become the country's first confirmed case, the New York Times reports.

It comes as Philippine health authorities are investigating the case of a five-year-old Chinese boy with a travel history to Wuhan, the central city where a SARS-like coronavirus was first discovered, after he showed flu-like symptoms before arriving in the country.

Health Secretary Francisco Duque said the boy tested positive for coronavirus, but it could not be ascertained what strain until the government gets back samples it sent to Australia.

He was confined to a hospital several hours after arriving in Cebu City in the central Philippines on 12 January with his mother, after he manifested a fever, throat irritation and cough, Mr Duque told a media briefing.

The Philippines health ministry also said it was monitoring three other Chinese nationals who arrived from China with flu-like symptoms but without any history of travel to Wuhan.

Wuhan, the sprawling capital of central China's Hubei province, is the epicentre of the coronavirus that has now killed at least six people and infected about 220 in Asia after the outbreak was first detected in December.

"I would caution people to remain very calm about this. At this stage, it is not something that is at the level of danger of something like SARS," Mr Morrison told Sky News.

"The necessary precautions are being taken at airports ... There's an incident response group that has already been stood up here nationally."

Mr Morrison said he was receiving updates to ensure "we're all over this".

Earlier, chief medical officer Brendan Murphy told reporters the risk posed to Australians by the new strain was low.

Biosecurity staff have been stationed at Sydney airport to meet the three direct flights a week from Wuhan to Sydney.

Written information will be provided to passengers onboard flights from Wuhan, explaining the symptoms of coronavirus which includes a high fever.

But Professor Murphy said it was not necessary to screen people for temperature which he said he proved unreliable in the past.

"They missed a large number of cases," he said.

Dr Young said it may take several days to confirm whether or not the man is suffering from the new strain of coronavirus as they need more information from China.

"At the moment, we can only do a generic test for coronavirus. We can't do the specific test for this specific virus, because we haven't seen it before. So, then we've got to develop the specific tests to be able to say it's this particular virus."

Dr Young said GPs who have patients with respiratory symptoms such as a cough, fever or sore throat, should send specimens to Brisbane for testing.

"Essentially there are a lot of Chinese who do travel between Australia and China, particularly as we're moving into the Chinese New Year Festival period.

"So, the advice is that anyone who travels to Wuhan and then comes back and is unwell, to go and see their GP or an emergency department, and to isolate themselves from other people."

At Sydney International airport, many travellers flying to the city of Tianjin in China on Tuesday, were not too concerned about the outbreak.

Shuo told SBS News she was travelling to visit her family in the southern city of Guangzhou.

“Actually my father works in hospital and he told me it's not that serious."

Fellow flyer Daniel, who is visiting family in China to celebrate Lunar New Year, had confidence authorities would handle it.

“Not actually, because we have experience controlling the SARS, so I'm pretty confident in controlling this time,” he said.

"[I am] a bit concerned, but I think with the proper measures - I think that can be controlled, probably."