Gold slips as dollar gains, fears ease about China virus 
 (Reuters) - Gold prices slipped on Wednesday as the dollar firmed and investors played down any immediate impact on the global economy from the outbreak of a new coronavirus in China.

Spot gold fell 0.4% to $1,551.13 per ounce by 0424 GMT. On Tuesday, prices declined as much as 1% to their lowest since Jan. 15 at $1,545.96.

U.S. gold futures were down 0.4% to $1,551.00.

Asian stock markets bounced as China’s response to the virus outbreak tempered fears of a global pandemic, although worries about a hit to domestic demand and tourism remained.

“This is just a continuation of the consolidation (in gold) that we have been seeing the last couple of weeks,” said UBS strategist Joni Teves.

“Key factors like the dollar and rates (will) start to become the focus again.”

Weighing on gold, the dollar firmed against a basket of currencies, making gold more expensive for holders of other currencies.

“Gold is struggling to gain momentum as positive equity market sentiment builds,” Stephen Innes, chief market strategist at AxiCorp, said in a note.

“Hedge funds remain on the sidelines, and sovereign accounts that were active at the start of the year seem to be absent ... physical demand into the Chinese Lunar New Year is weak, and India appears to have ample inventories.”

China will start celebrating the Lunar New Year, a key gold buying occasion in the region, from this weekend. However, investors are worried about the threat of contagion as hundreds of millions travel for the New Year holidays.

The death toll from the new flu-like coronavirus in China rose to nine on Wednesday with 440 confirmed cases, Chinese health officials said as authorities stepped up efforts to control the outbreak by discouraging public gatherings in Hubei province.

On the technical front, spot gold may revisit its Jan. 14 low of $1,535.63 per ounce, according to Reuters technical analyst Wang Tao.

Among other precious metals, palladium advanced 0.6% to $2,415.25 an ounce.

Silver fell 0.2% to $17.73 per ounce, while platinum edged lower by 0.2% to $997.30.