Man isolated in Brisbane by health authorities cleared of coronavirus 
 Wuhan is the epicentre of the outbreak, which has so far seen at least nine deaths, all of them in China, with about 450 cases globally.
The majority of the cases have been inside China, however the virus has spread to other countries, with the United States, Thailand and South Korea all reporting one case and Thailand four cases.
All of those cases involved people who had either come from or been in Wuhan recently.
Health authorities are particularly worried about the disease spreading over the next week as hundreds of millions of Chinese will travel overseas during the upcoming week-long Lunar New Year holiday.
Queensland Chief Health Officer Dr Jeannette Young said all doctors in the state had been made aware of the issue and were on the lookout for potential carriers of the disease.

"The advice is that anyone who travels to Wuhan and comes back and is unwell, for them to go and see their GP or emergency department, and to isolate themselves," Dr Young said on Tuesday.
Loading
Griffith University infectious diseases expert Professor Nigel McMillan said Australia was "very well placed" to deal with infectious disease outbreaks, with a lot of work put into public awareness and disease surveillance.
"The good thing about this is we know about it and we’re talking about it, so surveillance and public health measures are working," Professor McMillan said.
“We won’t have a situation where we have hundreds of patients overwhelming our hospital system, because we would have isolated them early and let the illness pass, hopefully with an unremarkable resolution,” he said.

There are three flights a week direct from Wuhan to Australia which all land in Sydney, with health authorities monitoring those flights closely when they arrive.
Loading
Coronavirus ranges in severity from causing a cold - 10 per cent of all colds in Australia are caused by a coronavirus - to being life-threatening.
The strains of coronavirus that cause severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle-East respiratory syndrome (MERS) are considered the most dangerous forms of the disease, with SARS responsible for nearly 800 deaths.
In the case of SARS, there was a delay in getting information out about the outbreak in the early 2000s, with the number of deaths dropping rapidly once countries around the world mobilised to fight its spread.

Stuart Layt covers health, science and technology for the Brisbane Times. He was formerly the Queensland political reporter for AAP.