Lab tests show Brisbane man does not have coronavirus, Queensland Health says 
 A Brisbane man who was being tested for a deadly new strain of coronavirus has been cleared of having the illness, a Queensland Health spokesman says.

The man had recently returned from Wuhan in central China, where the mysterious SARS-like illness was identified last month.

The man would have flown into Sydney from China.

"Laboratory tests show a man who fell ill upon returning from Wuhan in central China does not have the novel coronavirus," the Queensland Health spokesperson said in a brief statement.

The man was placed in home isolation after he presented to his GP with flu-like symptoms but was released yesterday as he had no symptoms of the virus.

The virus has claimed the lives of several people in China.

Chinese officials said the new virus was adapting and mutating, underscoring the challenges for health authorities in controlling the outbreak.

An official from the country's Centre for Disease Control and Prevention said the coronavirus originated from a market dealing in illegal wildlife transactions.

The virus, which started in the city of Wuhan at the end of last year, has spread to Beijing and Shanghai, as well as overseas to the United States, Thailand, South Korea, Japan and Taiwan.

The Chinese special administrative region of Macau also confirmed its first case of pneumonia linked to the outbreak, state-owned news agency Xinhua said.

China is taking more strict measures in hospitals to protect healthcare workers from the outbreak, and will increase training for healthcare workers nationwide, officials from the health commission said.

Authorities added that the infection of medical staff in the outbreak showed there were loopholes in treatment methods as authorities were still learning about the new virus.

Chinese residents vented their frustrations on social media over the limited availability of face masks being available to purchase in many cities such as Chengdu, as well as online.