Fears Coronavirus could spread to Britain with China flights observed for signs 
 Passengers flying to the UK from China will be observed for signs of a SARS-like virus amid fears of a global outbreak.

It comes as new cases of the fast-spreading flu-like coronavirus are reported in China, where it has killed nine people and infected at least 440 others.

The virus can be spread from human to human and cases have been detected in the US, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand.

There are fears the virus could spread to Britain and other countries in the coming days as hundreds of millions of Chinese residents travel domestically and abroad for the busy Lunar New Year.

Have you been affected by coronavirus or the new flight measures? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.

Measures on international flights to Heathrow Airport now include air crew observation of passengers, similar to steps taken by Australia and the US to identify potential carriers before they arrive at their destination.

The World Health Organisation (WHO) is expected to declare a Public Health Emergency of International Concern in response to the coronavirus outbreak which appears to have originated in eastern China.

WHO will issue the emergency declaration for just the fifth time.

Singapore authorities has started screening all passengers arriving on flights from Wuhan to combat transmission of coronavirus.

"In view of the confirmation of human-to-human transmission by the Chinese authorities, MOH will put in place additional precautionary measures to reduce the risk of importation of the virus to Singapore," Singapore's health ministry said.

It said it would treat anyone with pneumonia and a recent travel history to China or those with acute respiratory infections that had recently sought treatment in China as suspect cases and isolate them in hospital.

Several foreign tour operators said North Korea, China's neighbour, is banning foreign tourists starting Wednesday.

The virus has sparked fears of a pandemic similar to the 2003 outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) that started in China and killed nearly 800 people.