Coronavirus Death Toll On A Rise: What Is Coronavirus? Know Symptoms And Prevention Steps 
 The outbreak of new coronavirus has claimed nine lives and sickened hundreds. This virus occurred in Wuhan, China last month. The Chinese health authorities have confirmed 440 cases across the country. Earlier, it was believed that the virus originated from seafood market which could only spread from animals to humans. But the Chinese health authorities have now confirmed human-to-human transmission of this virus. The US has recently reported its first case of deadly coronavirus. Strict health screening of passengers arriving from Wuhan has been advised by US officials. Countries like South Korea, Thailand and Japan have also confirmed few cases.

Coronavirus affects the respiratory tract of the infected person. According to the World Health Organisation, "Coronaviruses (CoV) are a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV). A novel coronavirus (nCoV) is a new strain that has not been previously identified in humans."

The early symptoms which usually appear two to four days after the onset of coronavirus are similar to signs of cold and flu. These symptoms include-

5. Headache and fever in some cases

WHO explains that severe cases coronavirus can cause acute respiratory syndrome, pneumonia, kidney failure and even death.

Also read: What Is The Difference Between A Cold And The Flu?

WHO recommends simple precautions steps to control the spread of coronavirus. Some of the precautions include-

During the widespread, you should not ignore the early signs and symptoms of deadly coronavirus. You must seek medical help as soon as you experience any symptom.

Also read: 7 Things You Must Have At Home During The Flu Season

Disclaimer: This content including advice provides generic information only. It is in no way a substitute for qualified medical opinion. Always consult a specialist or your own doctor for more information. NDTV does not claim responsibility for this information.