China coronavirus – Wuhan on lockdown as officials stop ALL travel in and out of city at epicentre of deadly outbreak 
 THE CHINESE city at the centre of a deadly virus outbreak which has killed nine people is today on lockdown after officials stopped all travel in and out of the area.

Residents living in the city, home to 11million people, have been told to avoid crowds and minimise public gatherings.

Latest figures suggest the number of coronavirus cases in China has risen by more than 100 in a day to a total of 440.

The virus could be declared a global health crisis after cases of the mystery bug previously quadrupled in just four days.

It has spread from Wuhan to other parts of China as well as South Korea, the US and Thailand.

Officials have confirmed nine people from Wuhan have already died after contracting the killer virus.

National Health Commission vice-minister Li Bin has warned people to refrain from travelling to Wuhan and is urging those already there not to leave.

A major Lunar New Year event, the most important event in the Chinese calendar which was due to start on Friday, has been cancelled.

Around 30,000 tourists had already purchased tickets to the event and 200,000 free event coupons had been handed out.

Mr Bin said: “Basically, do not go to Wuhan. And those in Wuhan please do not leave the city.

“Though the transmission route of the virus is yet to be fully understood, there is a possibility of virus mutation and a risk of further spread of the epidemic.”

He added there were 2,197 people known to have come into contact with infected patients. At least 15 medical workers in Wuhan are known to be infected.

Mayor Zhou Xianwang added: “If it's not necessary we suggest that people don't come to Wuhan.”

The majority of cases have been found in Wuhan, where a seafood market which illegally sold wild animals is suspected of being the source of the outbreak.

Chinese officials confirmed 'novel coronavirus' - which causes pneumonia -can be passed from person to person.



Leading expert, Dr Jeremy Farrar, director of the Wellcome Trust, said that marks a serious shift change in the outbreak.

 He warned: "This is extremely concerning."

"Person to person transmission has been confirmed and, as expected, we are seeing rapidly increasing case numbers across China, and in more countries, with health care workers infected.

"With travel being a huge part of the fast approaching Chinese New Year, it is right that concern levels are at the highest level.”

The mayor of Wuhan has confirmed the latest deaths, an 89-year-old man from the city, which is home to more than 11 million people.

A 66-year-old man, known only as Li, and a woman, 48, known as Yin were also confirmed to have died from multiple organ failure.