Wuhan Coronavirus Outbreak: Indian authorities must prepare contingencies forthwith 
 India is upping the level of alert at its airports in the wake of the coronavirus epidemic in China. Authorities have already told airlines operating direct flights from China and Hong Kong to start making in-flight announcements asking flyers with history of fever or cough to inform about their health status. Thermal screening of passengers arriving from China has been expanded to seven airports — Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Cochin, Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata.

The Wuhan coronavirus has infected 291 people in China and six people have died. Four cases have also been confirmed overseas among Chinese travellers in South Korea, Japan and Thailand. A Taiwanese businesswoman too has tested positive for the virus. China has confirmed that the virus has reached the stage of human-to-human transmission, increasing its potency to spread quickly. All of this reminds one of the SARS epidemic in 2002-03 that spread to more than a dozen countries and killed nearly 800 people. In fact, the Wuhan coronavirus and the SARS virus are from the same family. And with the Chinese New Year around the corner which will see around 3 billion trips being made by Chinese people travelling to their home towns, Wuhan coronavirus infections could spike alarmingly.

 



To be fair, Chinese authorities have responded quickly to the outbreak. In fact, Chinese President Xi Jinping has urged government departments to promptly release information on the virus and deepen international cooperation. But vigil of the highest level needs to be maintained. India must be particularly careful given its patchy public health infrastructure. Containment measures need to be in place. Lessons can be learnt from Kerala’s praiseworthy handling of the Nipah virus outbreak in 2018. Health authorities must keep their guard up.

Read also: Coronavirus explained: What you need to know about China’s deadly virus

Read also: Coronavirus – China virus toll rises to nine as pandemic fears grow