Chinese authorities urge visitors to stay away from Wuhan in bid to contain deadly coronavirus 
 Chinese authorities have urged people to stay away from Wuhan, cancelling a major Lunar New Year event as it strives to contain the disease.

The death toll from the virus, which first emerged in the Chinese city has reached nine while more than 400 people have now been confirmed infected across the country.

The disease is spreading just as hundreds of millions of people are travelling in packed trains, planes and buses across China to gather with friends and family for the Lunar New Year holiday, which starts on Friday.

Wuhan's mayor Zhou Xianwang urged residents to not leave the city and visitors to avoid it so that the possibility of transmission can be reduced.

"If it's not necessary, we suggest that people don't come to Wuhan," Zhou told state broadcaster CCTV.

National Health Commission vice-minister Li Bin added his voice to calls to avoid the city, saying Wednesday it was best "that people do not visit Wuhan unless needed and for Wuhan residents not to leave the area".

Wuhan has 11 million inhabitants and is a major transport hub.

Earlier, China warned that a SARS-like virus could mutate and spread as the death toll rose to nine and the number of cases reached 440 across the country.

The coronavirus is transmitted via the respiratory tract and there "is the possibility of viral mutation and further spread of the disease", National Health Commission vice minister Li Bin said at a news conference.

Health screenings are being ramped up at Australian airports as a Brisbane man suspected of having the disease is released from isolation.

Queensland Health confirmed on Wednesday the man does not have the deadly illness.

The man who was placed in isolation at his home flew into Brisbane earlier in January after visiting family in Wuhan, where the virus broke out in December.

A number of Australians have been tested for the deadly coronavirus but there are still no confirmed cases.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison says Australians should be alert but not alarmed by the "evolving situation".

Biosecurity measures are in place and the three flights Australia receives from Wuhan each week would be closely monitored, says Mr Morrison.

He said the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has raised the level of its travel advisory for Wuhan to recommending travellers exercise a high degree of caution while in the city.

"I'm advised by the Chief Medical Officer the risk of transmission in Australia remains low, however the situation is evolving," Mr Morrison said on Twitter.

He said a national response centre is online and coordinating a response with federal, states and territory health experts.

"We are prepared to deal with this situation," he said.

Biosecurity measures have been ramped up for flights into the country from China, and the city of Wuhan in particular.

"A number of people have been tested in Australia and found to be negative," federal Health Minister Greg Hunt told Sky News on Wednesday.

Australia receives three flights from Wuhan per week which would be monitored closely, he said.

"(Flights) will be met by biosecurity officers, information given to passengers and the biosecurity officers will be accompanied by health officers," Mr Hunt told the ABC.

"They do have the capacity because of the measures taken to bring people directly to hospital if that were required.

"But we expect that any passengers that do have issues will self-report because it's in their own interests but if not, then there are strong powers."

In the United States a person living in Washington State has become the country's first confirmed case, the New York Times reports.

It comes as Philippine health authorities are investigating the case of a five-year-old Chinese boy with a travel history to Wuhan, the central city where a SARS-like coronavirus was first discovered, after he showed flu-like symptoms before arriving in the country.

Health Secretary Francisco Duque said the boy tested positive for coronavirus, but it could not be ascertained what strain until the government gets back samples it sent to Australia.

He was confined to a hospital several hours after arriving in Cebu City in the central Philippines on 12 January with his mother, after he manifested a fever, throat irritation and cough, Mr Duque told a media briefing.

The Philippines health ministry also said it was monitoring three other Chinese nationals who arrived from China with flu-like symptoms but without any history of travel to Wuhan.

Wuhan, the sprawling capital of central China's Hubei province, is the epicentre of the coronavirus that has now killed at least nine people and infected at least 440 in Asia after the outbreak was first detected in December.

Biosecurity staff have been stationed at Sydney airport to meet the three direct flights a week from Wuhan to Sydney.

Written information will be provided to passengers onboard flights from Wuhan, explaining the symptoms of coronavirus which includes a high fever.

Earlier, chief medical officer Brendan Murphy told reporters the risk posed to Australians by the new strain was low.

Biosecurity staff have been stationed at Sydney airport to meet the three direct flights a week from Wuhan to Sydney.

Written information will be provided to passengers onboard flights from Wuhan, explaining the symptoms of coronavirus which includes a high fever.

But Professor Murphy said it was not necessary to screen people for temperature which he said he proved unreliable in the past.

"They missed a large number of cases," he said.

At Sydney International airport, many travellers flying to the city of Tianjin in China on Tuesday, were not too concerned about the outbreak.

Shuo told SBS News she was travelling to visit her family in the southern city of Guangzhou.

“Actually my father works in hospital and he told me it's not that serious."

Fellow flyer Daniel, who is visiting family in China to celebrate Lunar New Year, had confidence authorities would handle it.

“Not actually, because we have experience controlling the SARS, so I'm pretty confident in controlling this time,” he said.

"[I am] a bit concerned, but I think with the proper measures - I think that can be controlled, probably."