Passengers to be screened for coronavirus at UK airports on China flights 
 Travellers from areas affected by coronavirus will be separated from other passengers on arrival in the UK, as the country steps up its response to the killer outbreak.

Public Health England (PHE) have upgraded the risk level from ‘very low’ to ‘low’ and implemented a series of precautionary measures, the Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said.

He added that London’s Heathrow Airport will introduce separate areas for people coming from parts of China that have been affected by the new flu-like virus.

Nine people have so far died from the coronavirus, with hundreds of others infected.

Cases have been detected in countries including the US, Australia, Japan and South Korea – but experts have so far been quick to play down the risk in Britain, where the virus is yet to reach.

Mr Shapps told Sky News: ‘There have been some announcements this morning about flights that come direct from the affected region to Heathrow with some additional measures there.

‘At the moment Public Health England have moved this from ‘very low’ to ‘low’ but obviously we want to stay ahead of the issue so we are keeping a very close eye on it.

‘Initially this is to ensure that when flights come in directly into Heathrow there is a separate area for people to arrive in.’

He added that the government would be keeping ‘a very close eye’ on the unfolding situation, as the World Health Organisation looked set to declare a ‘Public Health Emergency of International Concern’ following the outbreak, which is believed to have originated in Wuhan, eastern China.

It will be only the fifth time that such a declaration has been made, following outbreaks of Zika, Swine Flu, Ebola and Polio.

The Foreign Office has updated its advice for Britons travelling to China, warning the virus had spread to other areas outside the Hubei province.

The illness comes from a new coronavirus, not been previously identified in humans, that Chinese health officials said had spread from human to human and may be mutating.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that cause illnesses ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS).

Symptoms of the virus are similar to the common cold, while more severe cases can lead to pneumonia.

PHE did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Two days ago, Dr Nick Phin, the deputy director of PHE’s National Infection Service said: ‘Based on the available evidence, the current risk to the UK is very low’.

He urged anyone travelling to affected areas to ‘maintain good hand, respiratory and personal hygiene’.