China's Deadly Wuhan Virus Explained: What To Know About The Coronavirus And Its Global Fear 
 This year hasn’t had a very positive start. Australian bushfires are wreaking havoc while China is affected with the Wuhan coronavirus that is affecting not just its citizens but also other countries including South Korea, Japan, Thailand and even the United States -- alarming authorities everywhere. 
 Reuters
However, what exactly is this Wuhan virus and how can one detect it or fight it in time? 
What is Wuhan Virus?
Wuhan Virus is a kind of coronavirus. Coronaviruses are a large group of viruses that are normally contracted from animals (like civet cats caused SARS in China). Even the Wuhan Virus originated from the seafood market in the city -- with most of the initial victims being either vendors or buyers at the fish market. Researchers were able to find the virus similar to the ones found in bats, and even though it belongs to the same family as SARS, it isn’t as dangerous. 
 Reuters
How does the Wuhan Virus spread
As mentioned earlier, coronaviruses originate from certain animals and it spreads in humans when they have a physical contact with the infected animal. Yesterday, Chinese authorities also confirmed that Wuhan Virus can spread from human contact, thus warning people to stay covered at all times. 
 What does Wuhan Virus do to your body
Coronaviruses generally can cause something as simple as the common flu to something as severe as pneumonia. And people suffering from Wuhan virus have been showing exact same symptoms. People with stronger immunity have better chances of recovering from this disease instantly whereas people with poorer immunity -- young and old -- can cause serious respiratory diseases.
How many people are affected by the Wuhan Virus
Wuhan virus after breaking out in the city of Wuhan spread in Chinese cities of Beijing and Shenzen. The disease has made its way out of the country affecting people in Thailand, South Korea, Japan, and even the US. China has already announced Class A prevention and control measures for Wuhan Virus.
The virus has over 400 cases registered with it claiming more than 9 lives, as of now. Airports across the world are checking people in flights landed from China for fever and other Wuhan Virus-like symptoms to curb it from spreading in their territory. 
 AFP
Protection/Treatment for Wuhan Virus
To stay safe, try being away from people who are sick. Refrain from touching your eyes, nose, mouth. Keep washing/sanitising hands when you touch common surfaces. Keeping face and mouth covered while commuting and walking through public spaces can also come in handy. 
There is no particular vaccine or medicine that can save you from contracting Wuhan Virus (or any coronavirus for that matter). In most cases, the symptoms disappear on their own. Symptoms can be eased a little by doctors prescribing fever or pain medication.