Trump says Bloomberg is 'wasting his money' on 2020 campaign 
 President Trump Donald John TrumpTrump says US has coronavirus 'totally under control' Senate Republicans muscle through rules for Trump trial Collins breaks with GOP on attempt to change impeachment rules resolution MORE on Wednesday said Democratic presidential candidate Michael Bloomberg Michael Rubens BloombergSanders holds four-point lead on Biden in new California poll Biden endorsed by four more members of Congressional Black Caucus How Citizens United altered America's political landscape MORE is “wasting his money” by pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into ads targeting him.

Trump downplayed the political impact of the spending spree in an interview with Fox Business Network, though he has swiped at Bloomberg repeatedly in recent weeks in an indication the former New York City mayor has held his attention.

“Right now it doesn’t have any impact. He’s wasting his money,” Trump said from Davos, Switzerland. “He’s not going to win because he can’t. He’s a terrible speaker. He can’t speak properly, and he’s not a charismatic guy.”

Trump quipped that Bloomberg is "making a lot of my broadcaster friends wealthy."

Bloomberg, who entered the Democratic primary race later than most other candidates, is not on the ballot in early primary states. But the billionaire has flooded the airwaves with advertisements touting his record and hammering Trump.

Bloomberg has spent more than $225 million on ads since entering the race in late November, according to Advertising Analytics.

The strategy has captured Trump's attention. After the Bloomberg campaign announced Tuesday it had reserved 60 seconds in airtime for a Super Bowl ad, the Trump campaign responded by purchasing its own slot during the game.

Trump has tweeted multiple times about Bloomberg, complaining about his ads that criticize the president on health care and deriding the former mayor's spending spree as a "vanity project."

Bloomberg has vowed to continue using his deep pockets to help the Democratic nominee defeat Trump, regardless of whether he wins the nomination.