Stocks - Wall Street to Push Higher; Netflix, IBM Gain 
 © Reuters.  
        
    
    

        By Peter Nurse 

Investing.com - U.S. stock markets are set to open higher Tuesday, as Wall Street reacts to the more positive tone seen in Asia as concerns over the new pneumonia-like virus in China ease.

At 7:00 AM ET (1200 GMT), futures for the  traded 13 points, or 0.4%, higher, futures for the  rose 62 points, or 0.7%, higher, while the  contract rose 91 points, or 0.3%.

Earlier Wednesday, authorities in Beijing said the country will start a nationwide screening effort to tackle the outbreak as public health officials confirmed more than 400 cases of the illness, with the death toll rising to nine.

Hong Kong’s  closed 1.1% higher, Japan’s  advanced 0.7% and Shanghai blue chips 0.3%.

President Donald Trump, speaking to CNBC at the World Economic Forum, in Davos, Switzerland, also played down the significance of the coronavirus outbreak. He said he had been briefed by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and wasn't worried it would turn into a pandemic.

President Trump also took a shot at the World Trade Organization, the intergovernmental organization concerned with the regulation of international trade, and expressed confidence that the U.S. will agree a new trade agreement with Europe, citing the threat of auto tariffs.

“We started to see some clarity and with that certainty, and we think that’s good for business,” said Elie Maalouf, chief executive of InterContinental Hotels Group’s Americas region, in an interview with MarketWatch at Davos.

“Business and industry prefer certainty to uncertainty. The uncertainty over a period of time was something we were looking to overcome. With the recent agreements, one on the U.S.-China front and now on the U.S.-Canada-Mexico front, we see those tensions moderating, clarity is emerging, we also see clarity in the U.K. with resolution on Brexit.”

In corporate news, Netflix (NASDAQ:) will be in the spotlight after the streaming giant announced after the close Tuesday that its U.S. subscriber growth disappointed again in its final quarter but overseas expansion impressed. Its shares climbed over 2% premarket.

Shares in   IBM   (NYSE:) rose 3.8% premarket are late Tuesday finally reported a quarterly rise in revenue after 20 straight declines. 

Johnson  Johnson (NYSE:) posted fourth-quarter earnings with profit beating Wall Street’s expectations but missing slightly on revenue. Shares dropped 1.5% in premarket.

AT 02:05 AM ET (0705 GMT),  futures traded 0.6% lower at $58.06 and the international benchmark  contract fell 0.6% to $64.22.  for February delivery on New York’s COMEX dropped 0.1% to $1,555.75.