China health officials warn Wuhan pneumonia outbreak will grow; no super-spreader detected yet 
 BEIJING – Chinese authorities have advised people to stop travel into and out of Wuhan, the city at the centre of a new virus outbreak that has killed nine so far.

The advice came as China warned on Wednesday (Jan 22) that the new Wuhan coronavirus could mutate and spread as the number of infections reached 440 in 19 provinces across the country and the death toll in China climbed to nine overnight.

Another 2,197 cases of close contact with patients have been confirmed and there is evidence of “respiratory transmission” of the virus, National Health Commission vice-minister Li Bin told reporters.

Health officials said the number of infections will spike in the coming days, as hundreds of millions of people travel across or out of the country during the Chinese New Year holidays.

.Macau and the United States reported their first cases, adding to four cases in Thailand, and one each in Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. Meanwhile in China, more than 300 patients are still being treated in hospitals nationwide, said Mr Li, at a news briefing on Wednesday.

The virus is believed to have originated from wild animals sold illegally at the Huanan Seafood Market, said virologist Gao Fu. The first wave of patients had worked at the market in Wuhan or were exposed to the virus there.

“From animal to human, the virus has adapted and evolved. The relationship between viruses and humans is like a cat and mouse game,” said Professor Gao, who is director-general of the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention.

While experts say the biggest worry is the emergence of super-spreaders, Professor Gao said there is no evidence of these highly infectious individuals yet, even though 14 healthcare workers were infected by one single carrier in Wuhan.



 A worker monitors screens for fever signs on passengers detected by infrared detectors at Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan on Jan 21, 2020. PHOTO: EPA-EFE 



The World Health Organisation identifies a super-spreader as someone who spreads the disease to more than 10 secondary contacts.

“We will be monitoring closely, because there is the possibility of super-spreaders,” said Prof Gao.

Wuhan mayor Zhang Xianwang said the 14 healthcare workers – a doctor and 13 nurses – were infected by a patient in a neurosurgery ward who had not been tested for the new coronavirus. He developed a fever only after his surgery.

“That was a very profound lesson,” said Mr Zhang, who has appealed to people not to travel in or out of the city.

More than 90 per cent of cases of infections have been in Wuhan. The central Chinese city of 11 million has been on high alert as the authorities step up checks on travellers and vehicles.

All wildlife trading have been banned, and restaurants have been prohibited from serving these dishes. Face masks have been flying off the shelves as the country launch a nationwide hygiene campaign.

Beijing-based insurance agent Kevin Tu, 40, was bent on going home to Wuhan on Thursday to spend the new year with his parents. But he sought a refund for his air ticket on Wednesday after they insisted he stayed put in the capital city.

“They were worried about my safety, but I’m worried about theirs too. I’ve told them to stay home as much as possible, and avoid crowded places,” said the only child to The Straits Times.

On Monday, the health commission upgraded the Wuhan pneumonia to a Class B infectious disease, which puts it in the same category as the severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars).

But it is handling the outbreak with stricter measures under a Class A category, which stipulates that an infection anywhere in the country must be reported within two hours. Class A also allows for greater resources to be mobilised.

Ms Jiao Yahui, a health commission official, said while there are currently designated hospitals for treating the pneumonia patients, the authorities have contingency plans that include backup hospitals, should the epidemic become widespread.

Frontline medical workers including Chinese traditional medicine practitioners in Beijing told The Straits Times that they have been made to cancel their Chinese New Year leave to be on standby since Tuesday. Hospitals in the capital city have set up pre-screening triages and suspected cases are transferred to fever clinics.

“We just hope this battle will pass soon,” said Chinese traditional medicine physician Jia Xiaoming, 30.