Trump leaves Davos after downplaying friction with Iraq, condemning impeachment 
 Wrapping up his trip to a global economic conference in Switzerland, President Donald Trump on Wednesday played up the economy, played down friction with Iraq, and condemned Democrats over the ongoing Senate impeachment trial.

"They are major sleaze bags," Trump said at one point while referring to House Democratic impeachment managers Adam Schiff and Jerrold Nadler, claiming they are distorting his actions with respect to Ukraine.

Speaking with reporters at the end of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Trump also suggested he does not foresee top aides testifying at the trial, even as he claimed he would "love" to see that happen.

The problem, Trump said, is that testimony by the likes of acting White House Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney and former national security adviser John Bolton would reveal "national security" secrets. Trump's lawyers have said they would invoke executive privilege to block testimony from aides and ex-aides.

Wednesday in impeachment: Senate trial of President Donald Trump resumes with House Democrats arguing their case

Trump again attacked impeachment as "a total hoax" and "a disgrace," but said it's up to lawmakers to decide the case.

"I'll leave that to the Senate," Trump told reporters before the trip back to Washington, D.C., where the impeachment trial is taking place in the U.S. Capitol.

Schiff, Nadler, and other House impeachment managers accuse Trump of abuse of power by trying to get Ukraine to investigate a U.S. political rival, Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden.

Trump said he used his visit to the annual World Economic Forum to solicit investments in the United States from foreign nations and business people. He also recited a litany of positive economic statistics in the U.S. saying "these are incredible numbers."

Trump also said he has invited officials with the World Trade Organization to Washington to discuss possible changes to global trade rules.

Trent Lott and Tom Daschle: Senate leaders from Clinton's impeachment trial say two sides must work together

In his final hours at Davos, Trump held a series of morning meetings. They included one with Iraqi President Barham Salih about the fallout from the drone strike that killed a top Iranian general, Qasem Soleimani.

After that strike, the Iraq Parliament passed a non-binding resolution calling on the Trump administration to withdraw troops from their country, believing they are in the crosshairs in the standoff between the U.S. and Iran.

Trump, who said he authorized the strike on Soleimani because he was a threat to U.S. interests in the region, has previously threatened to place sanction on Iraq over its opposition to American troops.

“We’re working on a lot of things together," Trump said before the meeting with Salih. "We have a whole host of difficult things to discuss, and some very positive things also.”

He added, “we’ll see what happens."

Trump also told reporters his administration also has a plan to block any outbreak of the coronavirus, saying the Centers for Disease Control organization "has been terrific."

This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Trump in Davos: president plays down Iraq friction, slams impeachment