India Falls In Democracy Index, SC Refuses To Stay CAA + More Top News 
 pti/representational image
 Bringing more bad reputation for the country, India has slipped to 42nd place on an annual Global Democracy Index amid “rise of conservative religious ideologies" and increase in vigilantism and violence against minorities as well as other dissenting voices. Read more
 Here’s more top news of the day:
 SC Refuses To Stay Citizenship Amendment Act Without Hearing Centre, Gives Govt 4 Weeks To Respond
  BCCL
 Making clear it will not stay the Citizenship (Amendment) Act without hearing the Centre, the Supreme Court on Wednesday gave the government four weeks to respond to petitions challenging the CAA and said a five-judge Constitution bench will hear the matter. Read more
 BHU Orders Felling Of Around 200 Trees To Make Way For Colony
 
 A note circulated by the teaching and non-teaching staff, who are against the move, states that some of trees have already been cut. They assert that there is enough vacant space for the development project and trees need not be cut. Read more
 Death Toll In China's Coronavirus Goes Up To 9; The Sars-Like Virus Has Affected 440 So Far
 
 China's novel coronavirus is affecting people in China and has resulted in nine confirmed deaths so far in the country. The cases has also risen to 440 with the health authorities warning that the disease could spread further in the ongoing Chinese holiday season during which millions travel at home and abroad. Read more
 Jharkhand Leads The Way, Puts Off Plan To Build Airport To Save Important Elephant Corridor
 
 The habitat of the elephant, an endangered species and India’s national heritage animal, are regularly threatened by developmental projects. The Dhalbhumgarh airport sought nearly 100 hectares of land from forests in Jharkhand that serve as a corridor for elephants migrating between Jharkhand and the neighbouring state of West Bengal. Read more
 Man Who Kept Bag With IED In Mangaluru Airport Arrested, Took Revenge For Not Getting Job There
  Mangaluru Police have said that they have cracked the case of recovery of an improvised explosive device (IED) in Mangaluru International airport. This comes after a man identified as Aditya Rao has surrendered before the police. Read more