Is there a vaccine for coronavirus and how can you cure it? 
 Concern is growing worldwide over the continued spread of coronavirus, with the UK among countries putting precautionary measures in place against it.

So far around nine people are confirmed to have died and 440 people are believed to have been affected by the outbreak, which started in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in December.

Since then there have been cases reported in Thailand, South Korea, Japan, Australia and Macau, while the US also confirmed its first case in a traveller returning from Wuhan.

Meanwhile the World Health Organisation (WHO) is expected to declare a public health emergency of international concern over the outbreak – the fifth following the outbreaks of swine flu (2009), polio (2014), Ebola (2014) and the Zika virus in 2016.

With precautions being taken across the globe, is there a vaccine for the coronavirus – and is there a cure?

At the moment there is no vaccine available for the coronavirus.

It has been reported that the National Institutes of Health is working on a vaccine against the virus – but it could be a long way off.

A spokesman for the Institutes said that it could be a few months before the first clinical trials of the vaccine get underway – and a year or more before it’s available.

Meanwhile, Baylor College of Medicine in Houston is also reported to be working on a vaccine.

A spokesperson said that if a vaccine was developed it would most likely be given to healthcare workers first due to their exposure to patients suffering from coronavirus.

It has been reported that at least 15 healthcare workers in Wuhan had been infected with the virus.

There’s no specific cure for the Coronavirus – as it’s a viral disease, antibiotics won’t be effective in treating it.

Coronaviruses cause mild to severe respiratory illnesses, ranging from the common cold to severe diseases such as SARS or Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS).

The early symptoms of the Wuhan coronavirus include a dry cough, a fever, shortness of breath and a sore throat.

While many of those affected have shown only mild symptoms, scans on some patients have shown fluid in the lungs consistent with viral pneumonia.

The virus is more likely to progress into a severe illness among older patients or those with weakened immune systems.

China’s National Health Commission has said the Wuhan coronavirus can be spread from person to person – although the WHO has said they are still investigating possible methods of transmission.

They have suggested avoiding close contact with anyone suffering from an acute respiratory infection and ensuring coughs and sneezes are covered with disposable tissues or clothing.

Regular hand-washing is also recommended as well as avoiding unprotected contact with wild or farm animals.

For more information visit the WHO website here.