Chinese food market in the midde of SARS-like virus sold live KOALA 
 The Chinese food market at the centre of the deadly SARS-like virus outbreak was selling live koalas, snakes, rats and wolf pups for locals to cook and eat.

The Huanan Seafood Market in the central city of Wuhan in China came under scrutiny on Wednesday after Chinese officials said the coronavirus may have originated in a wild animal sold at the food emporium.

The market has since been closed and has been labelled 'ground zero' by local authorities.

The highly-contagious virus has killed nine people and infected hundreds in China, South Korea, Japan, Thailand, Hong Kong and the US.

A list of prices for one of the businesses operating at the market showed a menagerie of animals available for sale including live foxes, crocodiles, wolf puppies, giant salamanders, snakes, rats, peacocks, porcupines, koalas and game meats.

There are 112 live animals and animal products on the list.

'Freshly slaughtered, frozen and delivered to your door,' said the price list for the vendor called Wild Game Animal Husbandry for the Masses.

Gao Fu, director of the Chinese centre for disease control and prevention, said in Beijing on Wednesday that authorities believe the virus likely came from 'wild animals at the seafood market' though the exact source remains undetermined.

China bans the trafficking of a number of wild species or requires special licenses, but regulations are loose for some species if they are commercially farmed.

The Beijing News published a photo on Tuesday showing the same vendor's now-shuttered store front, as authorities in white hazmat suits milled about.

The paper also quoted other merchants as saying trade in wildlife took place up until the market was shuttered for disinfection shortly after the outbreak.

A number of the early sufferers of the coronavirus were employees of the market.

AFP tried unsuccessfully to contact the vendor.

Experts have warned it is 'possible' the virus will hit Australia.

Chief Medical Officer ­Brendan Murphy met with Prime Minister Scott Morrison at the Department of Health's National Incident Room in Canberra.

'We do have a lot of traffic from China and I think it's quite possible we will get some cases here but I'm very ­confident that we're well ­prepared to respond if we do,' Professor Murphy said.

'We currently have over 10 million masks even though we distributed 3.5 million during the bushfires, so we've got a good stockpile.'

Mr Morrison was adamant that the country was well-equipped.

'The states and Commonwealth are working together to stay ahead of this,' Mr Morrison said.

A Melbourne man was rushed to hospital for respiratory problems after a trip to China but was later cleared.

Another man in Brisbane was also suspected of contracting the disease but was cleared on Wednesday.

Australia will begin screening passengers that land from Wuhan where a new deadly virus was discovered last month.

The new screening efforts will only be in place at Sydney Airport where three direct flights from Wuhan land per week on Mondays, Thursdays and Saturdays.

When China Eastern Airlines flight MU749 lands on Thursday, passengers will be met by biosecurity staff from New South Wales Health and Border Force officials.

Passengers are expected to be screened for high temperatures with thermal imaging - but the method is not 100 per cent successful because people can harbour the coronavirus with no symptoms for days.

Anyone who does have a high temperature or is feeling unwell will be interviewed by officials.

It comes as US health authorities on Tuesday announced the first case of a person on American soil being diagnosed with the virus as millions of travellers prepare to take flights for Lunar New Year on Saturday.

Bats are thought to have spawned SARS, which in 2002-03 killed hundreds of people in Asia, mostly China.

SARS was also found in civets in wildlife markets in China, with many scientists believing the bat virus infected the cat-like creatures and then humans who ate them.

Following SARS, China cracked down on consumption of civets and some other species, but conservationists say the trade continues.

China has so far won praise for its openness and handling of the current outbreak in stark contrast to SARS, when it was accused of stifling information and failing to cooperate with the rest of the world.

What do we know about the new kind of coronavirus?  Scientists have identified it as a new kind of coronavirus. There are many known types of coronaviruses. Some cause the common cold. Others found in bats, camels and other animals have evolved into more severe illnesses such as SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome) or MERS (Middle East respiratory syndrome). WHY IS IT CALLED A CORONAVIRUS? Corona comes from Latin and refers to crowns or halos. Under a microscope, these viruses resemble crowns or halos. WHEN WAS THE NEW VIRUS FOUND? The outbreak started late last month in the city of Wuhan in central China, apparently at Huanan Seafood Market. HOW MANY PEOPLE HAVE IT AND HOW WIDESPREAD IS IT? About 300 cases have been identified. There are about 260 cases in Wuhan, according to Chinese officials. Cases in other Chinese cities, including Beijing and Shanghai, total around 30. They were reported with the onset of an annual travel rush for the Lunar New Year holiday. Many Chinese travel abroad for the holiday and a few cases have been confirmed outside the mainland - in South Korea, Japan, Thailand and Taiwan. That travel rush is expected to spread the disease more widely. Common symptoms include a runny nose, headache, cough and fever. Shortness of breath, chills and body aches are associated with more dangerous kinds of coronavirus, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Many coronaviruses can spread through coughing or sneezing, or by touching an infected person. Initially, authorities in China said there was no evidence of human-to-human transmission in the present outbreak. But an expert panel has concluded there have been at least a few cases of people catching it from others, raising the possibility it could spread more widely. COULD IT BE AS BAD AS SARS? So far, the virus appears less dangerous and infectious than SARS, which also started in China and killed about 800 people. As of Tuesday, six deaths had been reported, all in Wuhan. Viruses can mutate into more dangerous and contagious forms, and it's too early to say what will happen.