CDC expanding coronavirus screening to two more airports: Atlanta and Chicago O'Hare 
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention this week will expand screening of passengers arriving from Wuhan, China, to two more U.S. airports: Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson International and Chicago's O'Hare International Airport.

They are in addition to the three airports announced last week: Los Angeles International, San Francisco International and New York JFK.

The news comes as the first travel-related case in the U.S. was announced Tuesday. A traveler who had been in central China landed at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport on an unidentified airline Jan. 15 and reported pneumonia-like symptoms to his doctor on Jan. 19. A test confirmed he had it, CDC officials said in a briefing with reporters Tuesday.

Travelers wear face masks as they walk outside of the Beijing Railway Station in Beijing, Monday, Jan. 20, 2020. China reported Monday a sharp rise in the number of people infected with a new coronavirus, including the first cases in the capital. The outbreak coincides with the country's busiest travel period, as millions board trains and planes for the Lunar New Year holidays.

To manage the screenings and contain the spread of the virus, the CDC said all travelers flying between Wuhan, in central China, and the United States will be rerouted through one of the five airports with screenings if they aren't already scheduled to fly there. The Seattle-area resident did not take a nonstop flight between Wuhan and Seattle.

Passengers who are screened will be asked a series of questions and have their temperature taken.

Also on Tuesday, the CDC raised its travel notice for the region from 1, practice usual precautions, to level 2, practice enhanced precautions. It said level 2 indicates that preliminary information suggests that older adults with underlying health conditions may be at increased risk for severe disease.

RELATED VIDEO: U.S. begins airport screenings as coronavirus spreads in China (Provided by: CBS News)