Cancelled Family Dinners, Empty Streets: Life for Locals in China’s Outbreak Epicentre 
 Wang also had to pay a price for making this trip to his hometown during the ongoing epidemic, as his boss told him to work from home for 14 days after returning to Beijing as a precaution to make sure he was not infected by the new deadly coronavirus.

The ongoing epidemic started in early January after local authorities identified a number of patients exhibiting pneumonia-like symptoms. Local health authorities said the first group of patients was business owners in a seafood market, which reportedly sold live wild animals.

Chinese authorities stepped up their efforts in containing the new coronavirus by halting outbound tour groups from Wuhan and inspecting passengers moving in and out of Wuhan more closely for flu-like symptoms. Chinese health experts called on people to avoid travelling to and from Wuhan to minimize the risk of the new virus spreading further in the country.

Fears of being infected by the new coronavirus have forced many local residents like Wang and his family to change their plans for the upcoming Chinese New Year’s holidays.

Wang explained why he did not want to meet with other family members during the holidays in Wuhan.

The Chinese New Year is often viewed as one of the most important holidays in China when family members return to their hometowns for large reunions with other relatives. The strong tradition of large family reunions is a key reason causing the annual travel rush in the country before the Chinese New Year’s eve when everyone is expected to gather for a large family dinner featuring dumplings and other traditional dishes.

Similarly, Clark Wu, a 31-year-old working in a technology company in Beijing, also decided to return to Wuhan to be with his family for the Chinese New Year. Despite possible risks of infection of the new virus, Wu explained why this tradition was important to him.

As the number of infected patients grew by hundreds each day this week, local residents in Wuhan began to take precautions to avoid visiting public places which has lead to empty streets in the city.

Wang added that one of his friends invested in a milk tea store right next to the seafood market, where the recent epidemic started. The investment failed badly, as the area became deserted in recent days amid the ongoing deadly coronavirus outbreak.

Both Wang and Wu admitted that they had cancelled plans to meet with their friends during their stay in Wuhan for the holidays.

As a courtesy to his friends and colleagues in Beijing, Wu said that he would start a self-imposed quarantine after returning to the Chinese capital.

For other longtime local residents in Wuhan, the recent deadly outbreak didn’t really deter them from their daily routines.

Nevertheless, all of the three local residents in Wuhan said that they have confidence in the Chinese government’s capability in containing the new coronavirus because they argued experiences in dealing with the deadly Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2003 would offer guidelines on how to stop the ongoing epidemic from spreading further.

Wu noted that it took Chinese authorities about 20 days to acknowledge how serious the current epidemic was, which was a big improvement compared to the more than two-month delay before addressing the SARS crisis in 2003.