‘She’s a TIMEBOMB’ Chinese woman hides Coronavirus symptoms enters France and brags online 
 Users of Chinese social media site Weibo were shocked and angry at the reckless and potentially deadly actions of the woman. One said: “This kind of person is the most shameless”. Another posted: “She is now a time bomb.”

As the deathtoll hits 17 the "infected" woman posted about her "escape" from Wuhan and how she was enjoying food in a French city.
She posted: "Finally, I can have a good meal, it feels like I hacve been starving for two days. In a city of global delicacies, of course we have to eat food with Michelin Stars. This was also more successful, with no bugs. Just before I left, I has a low fever and was coughing quite heavily, I ate lots of medivine, which lowered my fever. finally, my fever went down, and I was able to exit."
The medicine she has taken is ikely to have been an antipyretic, which lowers the bodies temperature when fever hits.
The "infected" woman explained in a post that unfortunately if her infection was diagnosed, she would become a “super-infected person”.
This news comes as many more cases of those infected with the virus have been revealed, including Wang Guangfa, a member of the expert group of the Chinese National Health and Medical Commission who had visited Wuhan earlier and stated that the epidemic was “controllable and preventable”, but he has been diagnosed with Wuhan pneumonia last night.
So far, 440 people have been infected. A total of 26 cases were reported in Guangdong and 14 cases were confirmed in Shenzhen.
China has placed infrared temperature measurements screening in airports, train stations, coach stations and terminals.

The news comes after a French citizen had been reported to have suffered respiratory problems and other virus symptoms after returning to France from a trip to Wuhan, the Chinese city in which coronavirus appears to have originated.
The symptoms had previously been suspected to be coronavirus.
Yet, French director general of health, Jérôme Salomon, confirmed that the patient had received tests for viral infection at the Institut Pasteur health clinic, and all had come back negative.
Mr Salomon told French public service media FranceInfo: “He is doing well, and has returned home.”

He added that in case of any doubt, the public was recommended to “stay at home”, and take “barrier measures” to avoid the spread of viruses, including washing hands, and avoiding excess contact with others.
France has so far declined to put any systematic testing measures in place at its borders, and is not testing travellers arriving in the country from China.
In contrast, countries including Russia and Thailand have begun testing the temperature of all travellers arriving from China, in a bid to halt the infection.
Mr Solomon said: “This measure is not recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO).

“It is complex to put in place, and not very effective.
“Anyway, passengers leaving Wuhan are already being tested.”
The news comes after French health minister Agnes Buzyn said that “the risk of the virus spreading to France is low, but cannot be ruled out”.
She said: “Our health system is well-prepared; the health establishments have been informed, and our management recommendations have been delivered.”

Yet, Ms Buzyn said that precautionary measures are being taken on direct flights from Wuhan, and posters with advice on how to avoid spreading the virus have been distributed in international airports across the country.
China has so far confirmed that more than 440 people have been infected with the virus since it appeared in Wuhan at the end of December.
Nine people have died in China so far.
This week, Zhong Nanshan, a Chinese scientist working at the country’s national health commission, said that the virus had been “confirmed” as spreading between humans; the first time this had been confirmed officially.
The virus has also been reported in the United States, Japan, South Korea, Thailand, Taiwan, and Macau.
The World Health Organisation WHO is set to meet today, Wednesday January 22, in Geneva to “ascertain whether the outbreak constitutes a public health emergency of international concern”.