Coronavirus patient sealed in a PLASTIC TUBE to avoid contamination 
 Hazmat-clad Chinese medics have been spotted transporting a coronavirus patient with a sealed plastic tube in a bid to avoid cross-infection.

Footage shows two medical workers in hazardous material suits pulling a sufferer out of an ambulance and then wheeling the individual towards a hospital building.

Twenty medical workers in China have been struck down with the new strain of coronavirus while looking after patients, the country's officials have revealed.

The virus originated in Wuhan, a city of 11 million in central China, and has so far killed 17 people and sickened more than 520 in the country.

Thailand, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and the United Stats have also reported confirmed cases.

The 17-second clip, released by Radio Free Asia on social media, was filmed in Huizhou in southern China's Guangdong Province.

The small coastal city, with a population of nearly five million, reported its first confirmed case on Monday.

As for the whole Guangdong province, 26 people have been struck with the virus, including seven serious cases and three critical cases.

It's believed that the source of the virus were the live animals traded in Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, the largest of its kind of Wuhan, which spreads along the banks of the Yangtze River.

The Chinese authorities have urged its people not to travel in and out of Wuhan for the upcoming Lunar New Year, and strengthened the health screening in transport hubs across the nation.

And the government of Wuhan has ordered all residents to wear face masks in public places.

Coronavirus: What we know so far The virus has been identified as a new type of coronavirus. Coronaviruses are a large family of pathogens, most of which cause mild respiratory infections such as the common cold.  But coronaviruses can also be deadly. SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, is caused by a coronavirus and killed hundreds of people in China and Hong Kong in the early 2000s.  Yes. Nine people have so far died after testing positive for the virus Its symptoms are typically a fever, cough and trouble breathing, but some patients have developed pneumonia, a potentially life-threatening infection that causes inflammation of the small air sacs in the lungs. People carrying the novel coronavirus may only have mild symptoms, such as a sore throat. They may assume they have a common cold and not seek medical attention, experts fear. The virus's genetic sequencing was released by scientists in China to the rest of the world to enable other countries to quickly diagnose potential new cases. This helps other countries respond quickly to disease outbreaks.  To contain the virus, airports are detecting infected people with temperature checks. But as with every virus, it has an incubation period, meaning detection is not always possible because symptoms have not appeared yet.  How did it start and spread? Coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they are transmitted between animals and people, the World Health Organisation (WHO) says. The first cases identified were among people connected to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan. Cases have since been identified elsewhere which could have been spread through human-to-human transmission. What are countries doing to prevent the spread? Countries in Asia have stepped up airport surveillance. They include Japan, South Korea, Thailand, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia and Philippines. Australia and the US are also screening patients for a high temperature, and today the UK announced it will screen passengers returning from Wuhan. Is it similar to anything we've ever seen before? Experts have compared it to the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). The epidemic started in southern China and killed more than 700 people in mainland China, Hong Kong and elsewhere

Chinese officials this week confirmed that the virus had spread between humans, suggesting it can be passed through coughs and sneezes.

The first pictures and footage of Chinese doctors treating patients who were struck down with a new deadly virus have also emerged.

Images shared by the Central Hospital of Wuhan, where the virus originated, show medics donning hazmat suits attending to the sufferers at the hospital's intensive care units.

While a video report released by state broadcaster CCTV captures the tense atmosphere at the intensive care units of the city's Jinyintan Hospital, where most of the patients are being looked after.

Experts in the country today claimed that they had found ways to effectively kill the virus.

Li Lanjuan, an expert from National Health Commission's, said at a press conference: 'Coronavirus will die in 30 minutes in a temperature of 56 degrees Celsius.

'Ether, 75 per cent Ethanol and disinfectant containing Chlorine can effectively kill the virus.'

The killer coronavirus may already be in Britain, health experts have admitted today - as they warn humans have 'no immunity' to the deadly disease.

The news came as Heathrow Airport announced it would take the extraordinary measure of separating all passengers flying into the UK from Wuhan to try to stop the infection reaching British soil.

Health chiefs have now raised the threat level in the UK and one said this morning the outbreak currently has a death rate similar to the global Spanish Flu pandemic in 1918, which went on to kill more than 50million people.

Leading scientists have also today warned up to 10,000 patients may have caught the SARS-like virus in Wuhan - more than double the previous estimate.

Officially, around 530 people have been diagnosed internationally and the Hubei Provincial Government has now confirmed the death toll has almost doubled, from nine to 17. Antibiotics do not work for viruses.

It emerged last night that the disease had reached the US. A man in his 30s from Washington State, who had travelled back from Wuhan, was confirmed to be the first American case.

Patients have already been confirmed in Thailand, South Korea, Taiwan and Japan, and one man in Australia is being tested for the virus. Another suspected case has been recorded today in Mexico.

US President Donald Trump today said America 'has a plan' to contain the spread of the virus, which officials have confirmed can spread between humans.

But British experts who fear there could already be a case of the never-before-seen virus in the UK have warned screening in the UK 'is not foolproof' and said that the borders are too 'porous' to keep the infection out.

Scientists are desperately trying to contain the outbreak of the virus, which scientists say may have come from bats and can cause a fever and pneumonia.