Death toll from mysterious China virus rises to 17 as health officials consider declaring global emergency 
 The death toll from a mysterious new virus that has sickened hundreds of people in China and raised alarms around the world has jumped to 17 as officials warn the outbreak could spread even further.All deaths have been reported in Hubei province, where the infection is believed to have originated last month, while the total number of confirmed cases has topped 540 as of Wednesday, according to China Global Television Network, a state-run TV station.But while China scrambles to contain the outbreak, at least seven cases of the Wuhan coronavirus have been detected outside the country. Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, Thailand and the U.S. have all confirmed at least one case, leading the World Health Organization to consider whether the illness should be declared a global health emergency.The organization has convened a panel of experts and is expected to announce its decision as early as Wednesday.The first cases of the previously unknown respiratory illness are linked to a large seafood and animal market in Wuhan, a city of 11 million in central China, though authorities have since learned that the virus can spread from human to human.The first U.S. case was confirmed Tuesday in Washington State, where a man who recently traveled to China was diagnosed with the virus this week. The Snohomish County man, who’s in his 30s, has been isolated at a Seattle-area hospital, but federal health officials said he’s in good condition and is expected to recover.The growing number of cases has fueled concerns about a potentially massive outbreak that could take a toll on the economy and lead to many more deaths.Airports worldwide have stepped up efforts to screen passengers coming from China, especially the affected region.The U.S. began screening travelers last week from three international airports, including New York City’s JFK, but the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced Tuesday that two more airports will be added to the list in the coming days — Chicago’s O’Hare and Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson. Passengers coming from Wuhan will have to go to one of those five airports before they’re allowed into the U.S.🔹What is a #coronavirus ? 🔹Where do they come from?🔹 How can I protect myself? Watch this QA from @WHO for the answers. pic.twitter.com/Kal2PA6Vvj WHO Jordan (@WHOJordan) January 22, 2020 The most common symptoms identified so far include fever, coughing, breathing difficulty and pneumonia. The illness comes from a newly discovered type of coronavirus, a large family of viruses that typically circulate among animals but sometimes evolve and infect people, according to the CDC.Authorities said older adults with underlying medical conditions or compromised immune systems appear to be more vulnerable.With News Wire Services