Stocks trade higher on strong earnings from IBM 
 Stocks rose Wednesday, rebounding from the previous session’s losses, after the release of strong quarterly numbers from IBM.

The Dow gained 70 points, while the S&P 500 advanced 0.3% and the Nasdaq climbed 0.5%. Both the S&P 500 and Nasdaq reached record highs.

IBM shares climbed more than 4% on the back of quarterly numbers that beat analyst expectations. The company also issued 2020 earnings guidance that topped estimates.

These results put IBM “on its front foot for 2020,” Nomura Instinet analyst Jeffrey Kvaal said in a note. “IBM is quickly pivoting its existing businesses toward the hybrid cloud.”

Tesla, meanwhile, rose 3.7% as the electric car maker’s market cap broke above $100 billion for the first time. Semiconductor stocks also hit an all-time high. The VanEck Vectors Semiconductor ETF (SMH) climbed 0.9% as Nvidia and Qorvo advanced more than 1% each.

Stocks pulled back slightly on Tuesday as worries over the spreading of the deadly coronavirus dampened investor sentiment. Those fears eased Wednesday after China unveiled measures to rein in the virus.

President Donald Trump also said he trusts Chinese President Xi Jinping to deal with the crisis, adding the U.S. has everything “totally under control.” Trump made his comments after U.S. public health officials confirmed that the first U.S. case has been diagnosed in Washington State. However, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said the patient “poses little risk” to the public.

Airline and casino stocks rebounded Wednesday after falling sharply in the previous session. American and United Airlines were up 1.7% and 0.9%, respectively. Las Vegas Sands, meanwhile, advanced 0.2%.

Overall, stocks are off to a strong start for the year. Through 13 sessions, the S&P 500 has closed lower just five times and is up 2.8%.

Paul Schatz, the president at Heritage Capital, said the market’s foundation is “rock solid,” but noted investors may be getting too greedy at current levels.

“My issue is not how much we’ve gone up, because there is plenty of precedent for a market that grinds and creeps higher every day,” he said. “The issue today is you have a historic level of bullishness and outright greed. That’s my concern.”