Hawaii State Department of Health issues alert to local physicians concerning Novel Coronavirus 
 In light of the 2019 Novel Coronavirus outbreak, the Hawaii State Department of Health is advising that doctors across the Islands be on alert for patients who have traveled from Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China, officials announced Tuesday.


The department distributed a detailed medical advisory to health care professionals that includes information on reporting, testing, specimen collection, and interim healthcare infection control recommendations for the coronavirus (2019-nCoV). Any providers that encounter a patient that meets the criteria for the virus are advised to immediately contact the department's Disease Outbreak Control Division. 


            
            
        DOH is also recommending that everyone six months of age and older — especially frequent travelers — receive a flu vaccination. 


“With the current flu activity, there will likely be crossover in clinical presentation so the more people vaccinated against flu, the more helpful that will be,” said Dr. Sarah Park, the state epidemiologist, in a statement. 


Online state resources related to the virus can be found here.


Since December 2019, an outbreak of 2019-nCoV has been developing in Wuhan City causing more than 300 confirmed infections, as well as several deaths, in Thailand, Japan and the Republic of Korea. Earlier this month, the United States saw its first case of the virus in Washington state.


DOH officials say that the department is "closely monitoring the outbreak of 2019-nCoV occurring in China and regularly coordinating with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention."


"In addition to issuing a Medical Advisory to ensure all clinical providers are informed, the DOH is coordinating with Emergency Medical Service personnel/first responders, the Department of Transportation, and infection control partners in medical facilities throughout the state. DOH is also monitoring its well-established respiratory surveillance network which reviews flu activity in the state,"  the department said in a statement.


Anyone who has recently traveled to Wuhan and feels sick is advised to seek medical care, letting the doctor's office know about recent travel and symptoms before arriving, avoid contact with others and traveling while sick, and limit the spread of germs. 


For more information on the virus from the Centers for Disease Control and World Health Organization websites click here, here, or here.