Coronavirus: First case of deadly Chinese virus in US, officials say 
 The US has reported its first confirmed case of the deadly Wuhan coronavirus - revealing that a traveller returning from China had been diagnosed by authorities close to Seattle.

The Centres for Disease Control, the nation’s preeminent health institute, said the man, aged in his 30s, had been been taken to hospital in the town of Everett last week after suffering with pneumonia.

Reports said the individual, a US resident, had recently travelled to the central Chinese city of Wuhan, where the current outbreak is believed to have originated.

The mysterious respiratory infection that has killed at least six people and sickened hundreds more in Asia.

The Washington Post said the man travelled back to Washington state before health officials began screening travellers from Wuhan at Los Angeles, San Francisco and New York’s John F Kennedy international airports from January 17 onwards.

The newspaper said the man was in a stable condition, and was being treated at the Providence Regional Medical Centre in Everett, in Snohomish County, located 30 miles north of Seattle.

Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Centre for Immunisation and Respiratory Diseases, told reporters she had last week predicted it was possible a case of the coronavirus could be detected in the US.

She said the CDC had now confirmed such a case and was expecting further incidents in the coming days and weeks.

She said the screening of travellers from Wuhan was also being extended to Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport and Chicago O’Hare International airport.

State epidemiologist for communicable diseases Scott Lindquist, said that the man had arrived at Seattle International Airport on January 15, though not on a direct flight from Wuhan. Screening at the three international US airports began on January.

He said the man researched news about the virus on the internet and decided to contact his physician on January 19. Samples were dispatched to there CDC who are able to confirm the virus on January 20.

“He slipped past the screening, so to speak,” said Mr Lindquist, who said the man had been sent to hospital out of an “abundance of caution” and in order to better monitor him.

“He’s a nice man. He’s cooperating,” he said. Officials said the man said he had not visited any of the markets in Wuhan reportedly connected withe virus, or encountered anyone who was ill.

Officials in Washington state said the man, who was not identified, was not considered a threat to medical staff or the public.

“We believe the risk to the public is low,” Chris Spitters, a senior official at Snohomish Health District, told reporters.

The Associated Press said the US was the fifth country to report seeing the illness, following China, Thailand, Japan, and South Korea.

The news came as the World Health Organisation was due on Wednesday to to meet and decide whether to declare the outbreak an international public health emergency.

In China face masks have sold out and travellers have been checked for fevers at major transport hubs ahead of the lunar New Year – a national holiday which many take advantage of by travelling across the country and abroad.

Outside the Wuhan Medical Treatment Centre, where many of the coronavirus patients are receiving care, several workers were dressed in full-body biohazard suits, supplemented by goggles, masks and plastic wrapped around their shoes.