Live: NSW Now: Fire danger as temperatures soar, Michael Buble added to bushfire concert billing 
 Here's what you need to know this morning.

Heightened fire danger is expected across New South Wales today, with total fire bans in place for six areas.

Authorities have said there will be an elevated fire risk across the state, with temperatures soaring into the 40s.

There are currently more than 60 fires burning across the state, with fire bans spanning the Central Ranges, North Western areas, Greater Hunter, the Illawarra, Southern Ranges and Greater Sydney region.

Greg Allen from the RFS said there was still a fire risk despite the recent rainfall.

"Certainly we've seen a lot of rainfall across many areas in NSW, which has certainly been welcomed by a lot of communities and indeed our firefighters.

"We have seen rainfall across fire grounds but in some cases not the entirety of a fire ground, and not enough rain to put the fires out completely."



Canadian singer Michael Buble and Australian pop band 5 Seconds of Summer have joined the lengthy billing for next month's bushfire benefit concert in Sydney.

Buble will perform in a special live cross from Melbourne where he is performing at the Rod Laver Arena that night.

The show, at Stadium Australia on February 16, will be headlined by Queen + Adam Lambert, with other artists including Alice Cooper, Amy Shark, John Farnham and Olivia Newton-John.

A final allocation of tickets will go on sale today at 10am.

More than 65,000 tickets already sold out in under five hours.

It might be tempting to cool off in the Nepean River today with temperatures set to reach 41 degrees, but a Western Sydney water expert is urging people to hit the pool instead.

Dr Ian Wright from Western Sydney University said it would not be safe to swim in the waterway, following heavy rain which saw Penrith receive 60 millimetres of rain in the past week.

"That will have mobilised pollutants and there's a very high risk that water conditions in the river are contaminated and risky for human health," he said.

"It's a dangerous prospect, but particularly for young people, for old people, for sick people with poor immune systems."

Penrith City Council has previously said they are working on a grading system for the Nepean River, while a spokesperson for the Office of Environment and Heritage said Beachwatch typically recommends not to swim at harbour beaches for three days after rain.

Health authorities will screen people arriving at Sydney Airport this morning from the Chinese city of Wuhan, the centre of a deadly outbreak of coronavirus.

A flight from Wuhan is expected to touch down at Sydney Airport today at about 11:00am.

Authorities in the Chinese province of Hubei, where the flight is coming from, have confirmed the death toll from coronavirus there has risen to 17.

There are also 544 cases confirmed throughout China.

NSW Health will have staff at Sydney Airport today to help screen arriving passengers.

Cases have already been confirmed in other countries including the US and Thailand.

Symptoms include a fever with respiratory issues like a cough, sore throat and shortness of breath.