Health authorities rule out coronavirus after unwell child flies into Christchurch 
 China says the situation is under control but many more cases are expected.

Health authorities have quickly ruled out coronavirus after an unwell child was rushed to hospital from Christchurch Airport.

Speculation on social media, based on messages from the Chinese platform WeChat, quickly centred on the new virus, which has infected hundreds in China, killed at least 17 people and spread to other countries.

Canterbury medical officer of health Dr Ramon Pink confirmed a child had flown into Christchurch from Australia with a febrile illness (illness with fever) and was taken to Christchurch Hospital for assessment.

"Based on the child's travel history and clinical assessment, it is considered that this child does not have infection caused by the novel coronavirus."

READ MORE:

 * No NZ airport screening for cases of China's coronavirus

 * First man in Australia monitored for coronavirus, authorities confirm

 * Human-to-human transmission confirmed in China coronavirus

A translation of the Chinese WeChat messages, provided by China expert Professor Anne-Marie Brady, said the "young friend" was from Qingdao, China, and had flown into Christchurch from Sydney

Ministry of Health director of public health Dr Caroline McElnay said the ministry had been made aware of the child's illness and was in contact with the Canterbury District Health Board (CDHB) about it.

 

 "We note from Canterbury DHB that this patient has presented with febrile Illness and is not considered to have infection caused by the Novel coronavirus. We will stay in communication with the DHB."

The Ministry of Health confirmed on Tuesday no screening precautions had been put in place at New Zealand airports; thermal screening has been implemented at several border control areas elsewhere in the world to detect travellers with fevers.

The coronavirus, which was originally reported in Wuhan in China's Hubei Province, had already spread to countries like Thailand, Japan and South Korea.

In Australia health authorities have confirmed a man was being tested for coronavirus in Brisbane. It was understood the local man had recently travelled to Wuhan.

Symptoms were similar to that of a common cold: runny nose, cough, sore throat, as well as potentially headaches and fevers.