China coronavirus: travel ban issued for residents of Wuhan 
 Officials in Wuhan announced a complete travel ban on its residents amid a coronavirus outbreak that has killed 17 people and infected more than 550 others throughout China, state media outlet CCTV said on Wednesday.
The ban, which was issued by the outbreak command authority in Wuhan, the epicentre of the virus, said that from 10am on Thursday, urban buses, subways, ferries and long-distance passenger transport would be suspended in the city.
Flights and trains departing from Wuhan will also be temporarily suspended. The notice did not say when the services would resume.
The notice did not mention private cars but said “citizens should not leave the city unless there are special conditions”.


With a population of 11 million, Wuhan is bigger than London or New York. The virus has now spread to the United States, Thailand, Japan and South Korea.
The ban is to “best prevent and control the epidemic of the new type of coronavirus infection, effectively cut off the transmission of the virus, and curb the spread of the epidemic” to “ensure the safety and health of the people”, the notice said.
The Wuhan municipal government also issued a notice mandating that everyone wear masks in public places, and that staff of state departments and public institutions wear masks while they are on duty.
Europe boosts China flight checks as killer virus spreads
Before Wuhan’s announcement, Jiangsu province posted an order banning buses departing from any of its cities to Wuhan, and it set up special lanes in airport and train stations to inspect passengers from Wuhan.
On social media, the travel ban was welcomed by some, but others questioned why the authority didn’t issue it earlier.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office in Britain on Wednesday advised its citizens against all but essential travel to Wuhan.


The city’s government has struggled to treat suspected patients because of limited resources.
On Wednesday, Beijing News reported that hospitals in Wuhan have been overcrowded with feverish patients queuing up on winter nights. The transfusion rooms were full of patients, with some sitting in corridors to be treated with intravenous drips.
The outbreak is occurring just as millions of people in China are travelling for the upcoming Lunar New Year holiday, including migrant workers returning home to their families.
The travel rush over the holiday period, which can last up to 40 days, is considered the largest annual human migration in the world.

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

More from South China Morning Post:What do you need to know about the new coronavirus in China?Meet the doctors working round the clock to battle China’s coronavirus outbreakChina coronavirus: Europe boosts flight checks as killer virus spreadsFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.