NIH Issues Advisory On Novel Coronavirus 
 ISLAMABAD, (UrduPoint / Pakistan Point News - 23rd Jan, 2020 ) :National Institute of Health (NIH) on Wednesday issued an advisory and alert on Novel Coronavirus to all provincial health departments and specially Points of Entries (PoEs) at all airports and ground crossing in the country. 
According to NIH, the advisory was issued keeping in view the most recent emerging Pneumonia outbreak caused by a Novel Coronavirus in in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China, and its impact on the globe, It said that the purpose of this advisory was to alert and sensitize the health staff all over the country to remain vigilant about any suspected cases coming from affected areas of China for early detection of suspected cases of novel Coronavirus infection. 
Executive Director of National Institute of Health, Prof. Maj. Gen. Aamer Ikram said that NIH has activated its Emergency Operations Center to monitor the international dynamics of disease and coordination with Central Health Establishment (CHE), World Health Organizations (WHO) and provincial health departments for national prevention and control. 
He also directed virology lab to develop a real time Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (rRT-PCR) capacity for novel coronavirus as early as possible.
 
The NIH has developed health education and information material for healthcare staff, passengers and general public as well. NIH held a meeting with all airport health officers at NIH and reviewed the steps taken by respective airports. 
The NIH will provide all possible support to the health staff working at airports and seaport, he added. 
It is worth mentioning that NIH has recently completed comprehensive trainings for CHE at all airports, seaports and ground crossings on necessary health measures at Points of Entries (PoEs) in Pakistan while the NIH has also started awareness for sessions for relevant health staff. 
This outbreak started in the month of December 2019, as a mysterious cluster of respiratory illnesses in China by 450 confirmed infected cases has been reported. It has spread to five other countries; Taiwan, Japan, Thailand, South Korea, United State.
Initially this virus spread in human form wild animals and fish at a Wuhan seafood market, now human to human transmission has also been observed.
The advisory and health education material is available at website of NIH. www.nih.org.