Fears killer China virus 'could already have hit Britain' as city on lockdown 
 Health officials fear the deadly virus sweeping a region of China has already spread to Britain.

An isolation zone has been set up at Heathrow Airport for travellers arriving from Wuhan, capital of central China’s Hubei province, where an estimated 10,000 people are now infected.

Spanish flu killed tens of millions in the 1918 epidemic and British experts today warned that the new rapidly spreading coronavirus has a similar death rate.

Experts say thousands more will be infected without yet realising it.

Have you been affected by coronavirus or the new flight measures? Email  webnews@mirror.co.uk

Chinese state media say Wuhan’s transport network has been suspended and its citizens advised not to leave.

This evening a Foreign Office spokesman also warned Brits: “In light of the latest medical information, including reports of some person-to-person transmission, and the Chinese authorities’ own advice, we are now advising against all but essential travel to Wuhan.

“The safety and security of British nationals is always our primary concern, and we advise British nationals travelling to China to remain vigilant and check our travel advice on   gov.uk  .”

There are fears the virus, which can cause pneumonia, could spread to Britain and other countries in the coming days as hundreds of millions of Chinese residents travel domestically and abroad for the busy Lunar New Year.

Transport Secretary Grant Shapps has said Public Health England is putting in place new precautions in relation to travellers to the UK from the region.

Passengers arriving on a 6pm flight from Wuhan were checked on arrival at London Heathrow.

Prof Neil Ferguson, of Imperial College London, said of the situation in Wuhan at a media briefing: "Hospitals are now overwhelmed with suspected cases. There are ‘super-spreading events’ where one person can infect many people.

"The authorities there are clearly trying to skill up the response as fast as possible. I doubt the UK would do any better, possibly a whole lot worse.

“Novel viruses can spread much faster through the population than viruses that circulate all the time because we have no immunity.

“There’s a probability we’ll see a case in the UK.”

Thailand had last night confirmed four cases, while the United States, Taiwan, South Korea and Japan each reported one.

Health minister Baroness Blackwood said this evening: “Travel advice at the moment is against all but essential travel to Wuhan.”