Scientists are already working on a coronavirus vaccine 
 US scientists are already working to develop a vaccine against the new coronavirus that has killed 17 in China, where it originated, and spread to more than 500 people there and in five other nations.

A pneumonia-like respiratory infection outbreak is stoking pandemic fears as it arrives in the US with cases are suspected in Mexico, Colombia, UK and Australia.

But the World Health Organization (WHO) Wednesday remained undecided whether to declare it a 'public health emergency of international concern on Wednesday, instead opting to reconvene their emergency meeting

The new illness, currently referred to as 2019-nCoV, belongs to the same family of viruses as SARS, which broke out in China in 2003 and eventually killing 774 people worldwide.

Shaken by that outbreak, scientists got to work on a vaccine against the virus, but as SARS subsided, so did need, interest and investment in the shot.

Now, the hope is that vaccine could be retooled to prevent the newly-discovered virus that's now sickened 532 people.

But it's likely to be years before the shot is made to fit the new virus and gets through safety testing, Dr Peter Hotez, Dean of Tropical Medicine, at Baylor College of Medicine, who is contributing to the effort, told DailyMail.com.

He worked on the vaccine back in the early 2000s, when a coronavirus - severe acute respiratory syndrome - emerged as a serious threat to public health for the first time.

'After each of these epidemics, the scientific community - including our group - responded and developed that prototype vaccine,' Dr Hotez explained.

'But then when the threat died down, the investment community no longer wanted to continue to contribute to it.'

In 2017, a team of collaborators from China and the New York Blood Center published a paper on the ability of their prototype vaccine to 'neutralize' SARS-like coronaviruses.

Manufacturing began at some point, Hotez said, but the money wasn't there to send the vaccine through clinical trials.

Now, another coronavirus has appeared, originating in Wuhan, China, where it's sickened an estimated 524, officials said Wednesday.

Seventeen have died in China and cases of the virus have now been reported in Thailand, Japan, South Korea, and the US.

Investigations into possible cases are underway in Australia, the UK, Mexico and Colombia.

It's the first time in nearly a decade since the last serious coronavirus outbreak (MERS, or Middle Easter respiratory syndrome) began in Saudi Arabia began in 2012, that attention has been paid to the family of usually mild viruses.

'It's true that [response to ] a lot of pandemics kind of resembles a little kids' soccer game,' says Dr Hotez.

'The ball goes one direction and all the kids run after it. Then it goes the other way, and everyone runs that way.'

In general, though, he says that the scientific community's response to coronavirus outbreaks has been swift and efficient - and it's gotten faster with each.

Identification and genomic sequencing of the virus 'took over a year with SARS, with MERS it was a matter of months and, now, with this new one, it's a matter of days to weeks,' says Dr Hotez.'

Now, he and his collaborators are workign to see if it could 'cross-protect against other coronaviruses,' Dr Hotez said.

'It's clearly a different virus though, so we'll have to see how close it is. We're all sort of scrambling here to see how promising this will be.'

In other words, it's very early days.

And impressed though Dr Hotez is with the expediency of international community's response to the outbreak has been, we're a long way off from having a preventive shot ready.

'We have to do a lot of safety testing, formal toxicology, go through the national regulatory authorities...there's still a lot of breaking it down before you could even begin human clinical trial testing,' he says.

'There is nothing fast about vaccines...though things may be accelerated if things it turns out to be an a real public health emergency.'

World Health Organization (WHO) representatives met Wednesday to discuss just that - whether to declare the new coronavirus a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC) and is expected to announce its decision later today.