Coronavirus: Olympic qualifiers in China cancelled, leaving Kiwi boxers stranded 
 A team of New Zealand boxers have been stopped from travelling to China for an Olympic qualifying event after the tournament was cancelled because of the deadly coronavirus outbreak in the Chinese city of Wuhan.

The group of Kiwi fighters, including two-time Commonwealth Games gold medallist David Nyika, have been in a training camp in Thailand for two weeks ahead of the Asia/Oceania qualifying event for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.

Wuhan was due to host the boxing qualifiers from February 3-14 but the event was called off on Wednesday (Thursday NZ time) and no rescheduling plans have yet been made by the International Olympic Committee (IOC).

The decision follows Chinese health authorities telling people in Wuhan to avoid crowds and public gatherings.

READ MORE:

 * Parker teaming up with Fury

 * Parker won't duck Usyk

 * Ruiz and Whyte showdown?

 * Fury's cut caution for Wilder

 * Wilder: I would kill in MMA

More than 500 people have been infected and at least 17 killed since the outbreak emerged last month. The illness comes from a newly identified type of coronavirus.

The cancellation of the qualifying event is a blow for the Kiwi boxers and it jeopardising their preparations for the Olympics.

Olympic qualifying is being managed by the IOC Boxing Task Force (BTF) after AIBA was last year removed from organising bouts.

"The IOC Boxing Task Force noted today's decision of the Local Organising Committee to cancel the Asian/Oceanian Tokyo 2020 boxing qualifying event which was due to take place in Wuhan (CHN) from 3-14 February 2020, amid growing concerns in relation to the coronavirus outbreak reported in the city," the BTF said in a statement.

The coronavirus outbreak also forced the four-nation Asian qualifying group for the Olympic women's football tournament, featuring hosts China, Australia, Taiwan and Thailand, to be moved from Wuhan to Nanjing and played on the same dates (February 3-9).

Cases of the coronavirus have have also been reported in the United States, Japan, South Korea and Thailand. All involve people from Wuhan or those who recently travelled there.