Jeff Bezos’ Hacked Phone, Coronavirus Hits the US, and More News 
 Jeff Bezos was hacked and a new virus is on the attack, but first: a cartoon about social media breakups. Here's the news you need to know, in two minutes or less.
Want to receive this two-minute roundup as an email every weekday? Sign up here!
Today’s News
Everything we know about the Jeff Bezos phone hack
In May of 2018, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos received an unexpected text on WhatsApp from Saudi Arabian leader Mohammed bin Salman: a video file that reportedly extolled Saudi Arabia’s economy. But what Bezos didn't know was that the video file was loaded with malware. According to the UN’s findings, the Saudi regime began exfiltrating large amounts of data from the phone within hours of sending the tainted MP4 video file. The attack raises questions about others who communicate with the crown prince—like President Donald Trump, who is known for using personal, consumer-grade smartphones.
Could China's new coronavirus become a global epidemic?
A month ago, a few dozen people fell sick with a mysterious cluster of respiratory illnesses in Wuhan, China. Now it's killed nine, sickened hundreds more, and spread to five other countries including the US. The first US case was a Washington man who had recently traveled to Wuhan but says he didn't visit the seafood market believed to be at the center of the outbreak, adding to the evidence that the virus can spread from person to person.
Fast Fact: Up to 15 Million
That's how many Americans are estimated to use the drug Kratom, which they take for everything from quitting opioids to replacing morning coffee. But experts are divided on the safety of the drug.
WIRED Recommends: Alexa Speakers
So you want to have Amazon's voice assistant Alexa in your home, but you're not sure which speaker is best for you? We've got you covered.
News You Can Use
Check out these standing desks that rise above the competition.
This daily roundup is available as a newsletter. You can sign up right here to make sure you get the news delivered fresh to your inbox every weekday!