British tourist feared to have coronavirus only has FLU, say docs as he takes first steps for a month 
 A BRIT who was feared to have contracted the lethal coronavirus in Thailand does NOT have the disease, his dad has said.

Ash Shorley, 32, from Thornton in Lancashire, was initially thought to have got the deadly virus that is sweeping Asia but was actually struck down with an illness that's been likened to an aggressive strain of bird flu.

Ash was rushed to hospital in Phuket after a pneumonia-style bug infected both lungs while he was on Koh Phi Phi island.

He had to be ferried by specialised seaplane because his damaged lungs could not cope with high altitude travel.

Doctors in Phuket feared his symptoms were consistent with the Chinese coronavirus, whose spread has triggered fears of a pandemic.

Surgeons in Phuket inserted pipes into Ash's back and drained 2kg of liquid from his collapsed lungs.

Ashley's parents Chris and Julie, both 55, flew out to be by their son's bedside.

Dad Chris told The Sun his son was only "two days from death" but Ash is now back on the mend and has taken his first steps in hospital.

Speaking to LBC News, Chris said: "He caught some aggressive type-A influenza, which is similar to bird-flu, but it's not the new virus that's been spreading around China, I know that now for a fact.

"There were concerns it was that (coronavirus) because the symptoms are exactly the same.

"His lungs were coated with some tar-like substance which stopped them from expanding.

"That's why he had to be flown to Bangkok in a special plane at extra low level.

"The treatment in Bangkok at Bumrungrad International Hospital has been fantastic. They've saved Ashley's life without a shadow of a doubt."

He added: "It's been absolutely horrendous.

"Any parent would not want this to happen to their child because it was touch and go whether he was going to live.

"Touch wood, he’s now out of danger but at the time the emotional stress was unbearable."

It comes as experts warn the coronavirus sweeping the globe could be as deadly as Spanish flu which killed 50 million people.

Prof Neil Ferguson fears it could already have arrived in the UK on one of the three flights a week from Wuhan, China, where the virus originated.

Officials last night stepped up checks at Heathrow as the death toll doubled in a day to 17, with more than 550 confirmed cases across six countries.

The infection, linked to a seafood market in Wuhan, has spread to Thailand, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea and the United States.