Universities start new term scarred by protests as students mull Hong Kong exit 
 Three universities in Hong Kong devastated by anti-government protests started the new term on Monday with tightened security and damage still visible, leaving some students considering studying elsewhere.
Campuses emerged as a new front in escalating violence between hard-core protesters and riot police in November, with universities including Polytechnic, City and Baptist blighted by tear gas and petrol bombs.
Security officers stood guard and turnstiles were in operation on Monday at Hung Hom’s PolyU, which underwent more than a month of restoration work after a stand-off between police and radicals over nearly two weeks.


Police laid siege to the campus for 13 days in November after anti-government protesters took over the campus, blocking roads, setting fires and breaking into on-site laboratories.
PolyU said on Monday that most of the damage had been fixed, but parts of the campus including the swimming pool, some footbridges, and a section of the jogging track, which sits in the public area of the grounds, were still being repaired.
The university, which started to reopen from mid-December following the previous month’s chaos, added that carpets and ceilings in all affected buildings were either being replaced or had been sterilised.
Its food court, which suffered sanitation issues after protesters used the area as a canteen during the siege, reopened on Monday morning after it was repeatedly sterilised and subjected to bacterial level tests.
Many students and staff wore masks when returning to the campus. While some said they did so fearing the spread of the Wuhan coronavirus outbreak, others were worried about toxicity levels after hundreds of rounds of tear gas were fired during the demonstrations.
Campus violence a blow to Hong Kong universities’ image and appeal
A third-year student surnamed Kwok, 20, from the faculty of health and social sciences, said: “I still feel uneasy returning to campus.
“It was not long ago the protests happened here. I’m still worried there are toxic residues remaining after so many rounds of tear gas were fired.”

PolyU said last month that independent laboratory testing of environmental samples collected on campus showed health and safety standards were being met. It said thorough cleaning had also been carried out, including of air handling system filters and portable water tanks.
Students and staff were also divided on the new security measures.
Max Cheung, 20, from PolyU’s school of optometry, found them an inconvenience and unnecessary.
“Many security guards have been standing by at entrances, which are already safe enough. What’s the point of making entry to the campus like passing through border customs?” the third-year student said.
PolyU partially reopens, weeks after descent into protest war zone
But Jamie McKeown, a postdoctoral research fellow at PolyU, said the university could not risk a repeat of the protest chaos.
A 26-year-old master’s student from mainland China, who identified herself as Ruby, believed the tough measures could be relaxed in the coming months.
“PolyU used to adopt an open-to-public policy … I believe security could be loosened gradually in the future but it would have to be balanced against student safety,” she said.
PolyU’s student union has collected 5,000 signatures in an online petition accusing the university of a lack consultation over the turnstiles installation.


PolyU president Teng Jin-guang was expected to meet students next month to listen to their views.
Security measures at City University and Baptist University, both in Kowloon Tong, were also strengthened as they started their new term on Monday, with card-reading machines placed at main entrances to restrict access.
Most of the vandalised facilities at the two universities are back to normal with a few still closed for repair, including the footbridge linking City University student halls with the campus where protesters clashed with police.
Trashed university in Hong Kong ‘will take more than six months to repair’
Graffiti and posters attacking police and the government still remain at Baptist University, while most of them have been cleared at City University, which revealed earlier the restoration work would cost a nine-figure sum.
A 23-year-old undergraduate from Guangdong, who only gave his surname as Yue, returned to Baptist University for the first time on Monday since the university arranged for students to retreat from the campus last November.
“There are several security guards at entrance apart from staff. It makes me feel safe,” he said.
“I got scared when I was leaving the campus last November. I saw many black clad people digging bricks and making petrol bombs on campus.”

But Yue said he was applying to study in the US or Canada because his family was worried about his safety after the protests.
“I plan to study elsewhere if situations in Hong Kong get worse. But if things are stable, I prefer to stay because otherwise I would need to study for one more year and that would be more costly,” he said.
He said some mainland students had withdrawn from the university and returned home.


Franciska Maric, from Croatia, a second-year student studying quantity surveying at City University, said violent protests were limiting the diversity of the university and the city because many international students, including her, were thinking of leaving Hong Kong.
“If violent protests like last semester’s continue on campus, I’ll think about transferring to other universities outside Hong Kong,” she said.
She said while she respected the rights of protesters to voice their opinions, that did not justify violence.
The protests were triggered in June by the now-withdrawn extradition bill, but have morphed into a broader anti-government movement fuelled by allegations of police brutality and the push for more democracy.
More from South China Morning Post:In the wake of campus clashes, at least four Hong Kong universities restrict public access to open spaces … but should they?Hong Kong universities step up security leaving students and staff facing guards, gates and fencing just to get to classChinese University to spend HK$70 million to fix campus facilities and repair its buses damaged during vandalism by radical protesters in November 2019For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.