What to Know About the Mysterious Coronavirus Detected in China 
 A new virus in China has health officials on edge. Getty Images Chinese authorities have detected a new outbreak of a coronavirus. While this is the same family as the SARS virus, it appears to be a new disease. The disease has been connected to a seafood market in China, but the investigation is still ongoing. Chinese scientists have identified a previously unknown type of coronavirus as the cause of a recent pneumonia outbreak in the city of Wuhan, according to state media. The current situation follows the severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus (SARS-CoV) outbreak in 2002 and first detection of Middle East respiratory syndrome-coronavirus (MERS-CoV) in 2012.

According to the , initial information about the pneumonia cases in Wuhan, provided by Chinese authorities, pointed to the coronavirus (CoV) as a possible pathogen causing this cluster. Chinese authorities later reported that laboratory tests ruled out SARS-CoV, MERS-CoV, influenza, avian influenza, adenovirus, and other common infectious agents. Over 8,000 people were infected with the SARS virus and almost 800 died in that pandemic. The virus spread to nearly in 2002 and 2003. The same type of virus was associated with a similar outbreak of MERS, which was first in Saudi Arabia. According to the , MERS has been responsible for about 850 deaths worldwide. Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses, with some causing less-severe disease, like the common cold. Although some transmit easily from person to person, others do not. Chinese authorities have that while the virus in question can cause severe illness in some patients, it doesn’t transmit easily between people.

China state media reported that some of the people, who fell ill between December 12 and 29, are sellers from a local wholesale seafood market. That market has since been shut down for cleaning and disinfection according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The CDC advises that travelers to Wuhan, China should avoid living or dead animals, animal markets, and contact with sick people. “What’s happening over there is in a particular area of China at a seafood market, and at this point it appears that transmission is from animal to human,” Nikhil Bhayani, an infectious disease physician with Texas Health Resources told Healthline. “We don’t have any confirmation of human to human transmission, so that’s why the CDC has reported warning that tourists or travelers there avoid these type of exotic food markets where they’re selling seafood and exotic meats, and just be cautious of those areas,” he said.

“Corona means ‘crown,’ so these viruses appear crown-shaped when looked at under an electron microscope,” said Bhanu Sud, MD, an infectious disease specialist in Placentia, California. “Most coronaviruses are harmless,” he said. “They’ll usually cause mild to moderate upper respiratory tract illnesses, like the common cold. Most people will get infected with these viruses at some point in their lives.” Dr. Sud emphasized that while the prognosis is good for most people infected with this type of virus, the SARS and the MERS strains are more serious. They have a mortality rate that’s around 10 percent for people with SARS and 30 percent for those infected by the MERS variant. “What is unknown right now is the virus being typed. They’re doing testing to find out what type of virus this is and whether it’s more similar to SARS or MERS,” Dr. Bhayani said. “I have a strong feeling that this is going to be a new virus.”

According to a translated report from the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission: “Experts advise that the city is currently in the season of high incidence of infectious diseases in winter and spring. Citizens should pay attention to maintaining indoor air circulation, avoiding closed and airless public places and crowded places, and wear masks if necessary.” The report also states, “As of now, preliminary investigations have shown no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission and no medical staff infections.” However, Dr. Sud said it’s very early in the investigation for the outbreak in China. “It seems to be a coronavirus, but requires more time for fully understanding it,” Sud said. “Any infection anywhere in the world is always a risk for every country because international travel has become so easy now.” He added that this is why early detection and quarantine are essential measures in halting the spread of these infections.

According to Dr. Sud, human coronaviruses are most commonly spread from an infected person to others through: the air by coughing and sneezing close personal contact, such as touching or shaking hands touching an object or surface with the virus on it, then touching your mouth, nose, or eyes before washing your hands “In the United States, people usually get infected with common human coronaviruses in the fall and winter. However, infection can occur at any time of the year,” he said. “Most people will get infected with one or more of the common human coronaviruses in their lifetime,” he added. He also pointed out both SARS and MERS outbreaks were from animal-to-human contact, with SARS most likely from contact with bats and MERS from contact with camels. “Since the organism causing infection is a virus, to date, we don’t have any specific antiviral medications,” said Dr. Sud.