Fears raised on Wuhan virus spread as patient ‘did not visit outbreak site’ 
 A Chinese tourist, who was confirmed by Thai authorities to have the new virus behind the Wuhan pneumonia strain, had not visited the mainland seafood market associated with the outbreak, the Post has learned.
The revelation raised fears that the woman, 61, the first confirmed case outside China, could have caught the virus in Wuhan at other markets, which she was understood to have visited.
The woman, who travelled to Bangkok from the city in Hubei province, was found to have a fever on arrival at Suvarnabhumi airport on January 8 and was hospitalised that day.
She was confirmed on Sunday to have been infected with the new coronavirus strain, which has struck at least 41 people in Wuhan and killed one.

Dr Sopon Eamsiritavorn, from the Thai Ministry of Public Health’s Department of Disease Control, said it appeared the woman’s infection was not related to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, which Chinese authorities had linked to the Wuhan outbreak and had been closed since January 1.
“It seems there’s no relation with the market,” he said, when asked whether the patient had visited the outbreak site.
A source familiar with the details of the case said the woman did not visit the market.
“But she did visit other markets before going to Thailand,” the source said.
Detailed investigations into the case were in progress.
With genetic details, Hong Kong to rush new test for Wuhan virus
Professor David Hui Shu-cheong, a respiratory medicine expert from Chinese University, had previously said that if the woman had not been to the seafood market, it would suggest that the virus had spread to other parts of Wuhan.
Details on investigations in Thailand could be found by following reports from officials there, Tarik Jasarevic, a spokesman for the World Health Organisation, said.
Between December 31 and Monday, Hong Kong had reported 68 suspected cases, with 56 of them cleared and discharged.

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.