Chinese Scientists Have Found An Unknown, Life-Threatening Virus That Has Infected 41 People 
 Authorities in China have come across a new kind of virus that has affected a total of 41 people and has claimed one life. The unique form of corona-virus is being linked to the recent pneumonia outbreak in the city of Wuhan, according to Chinese state media. 
 Reuters
The condition follows the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus, also known as SARS-CoV that was spread across China in 2002 as well as primary detection of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) that was spotted in 2012.
In case you didn’t know, coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that cause infections that range from a regular cold to something as lethal as SARS. In this, patients show pneumonia-like symptoms including high-fever, have difficulty breathing, among others. 
Out of the 41 affected, two have been discharged while the rest remain in stable condition. The main centre for this outbreak is the local seafood market -- as the patients are mostly vendors and buyers at the market. The market was home to not just seafood but also a variety of creatures like snakes and other amphibians. The market has been shut for now, with decontamination in progress.
 In case you thought the disease is only limited to China, it isn’t. Yesterday, this deadly disease was also spotted in Thailand, which as the regional authorities have confirmed was a Chinese woman who travelled from Wuhan. The authorities stopped the women from entering Thailand when they found out that the lady travelling from Wuhan had a fever. She has been in medical care ever since and is recovering. 
 Reuters
Scientists in Hong Kong’s Department of Health have revealed that genetic sequencing of the virus from a Wuhan patient is 80 percent similar to SARS that is seen commonly in bats. They haven’t been able to confirm whether it spreads easily between humans as SARS.

World Health Organisation has issued guidance for detecting, staying safe as well as treating the novel coronavirus. Prompt diagnosis was made possible thanks to China instantly sharing the genetic sequencing of the virus.