First case of new virus reported outside China 
 Image copyright
                 AFP
                
            
            
            
                Image caption
                
                    The outbreak began in Wuhan in eastern China
                
            
            
        A traveller in Thailand has become the first person outside China to be diagnosed with a new coronavirus.
The Chinese woman was quarantined after arriving in Bangkok from Wuhan, in eastern China, where the outbreak began in December.
One person has died and 41 pneumonia-like cases have been recorded so far.
Coronaviruses can cause illnesses ranging from the common cold to potentially deadly viruses such as Sars and Mers.
Sars - severe acute respiratory syndrome - killed more than 700 people around the world during an outbreak in 2002-3, after originating in China. 
In total, it infected more than 8,000 people in 26 countries.
China has been free of Sars since May 2004.
According to the country's official Xinhua News Agency, the female passenger arrived in Thailand on 8 January, where she was hospitalised. No other passengers were infected, it said, adding that the traveller was now ready to return to Wuhan.
Separately on Tuesday, the World Health Organization (WHO) said for the first time that there appeared to have been limited person-to-person transmission of the virus, according to Reuters news agency.
"From the information that we have it is possible that there is limited human-to-human transmission," Maria Van Kerkhove, acting head of WHO's emerging diseases unit, told reporters in Geneva.
She added that the organisation is preparing for the possibility of a wider outbreak: "It is still early days, we don't have a clear clinical picture."
Many earlier cases of the virus had reportedly been linked to a fish market in Wuhan.
The new case in Thailand comes just ahead of a major travel period in China, as hundreds of millions of people prepare to travel for Chinese New Year later this month. 
On 9 January, Singapore's airport said it would begin temperature screening travellers from Wuhan.
Hong Kong health officials also said they would also implement checks on passengers, and that they had stepped up the disinfection of trains and aeroplanes, AFP news agency reported.
BBC Health's Philippa Roxby reported earlier this month that this latest outbreak "appears to have sparked memories for those who dealt with a Sars epidemic 18 years ago".