WHO warns mysterious China coronavirus linked to SARS could spread as new case detected 
 A Chinese woman has been quarantined in Thailand with a mystery strain of coronavirus, according to Thai authorities, the first time the virus has been detected outside China.

World Health Organization (WHO) officials said it is possible there could be a wider outbreak of the new coronavirus — a large family of viruses that can cause infections ranging from the common cold to SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome).

In all, 41 cases of pneumonia and one death have been reported in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, which preliminary lab tests showed could be from a new type of coronavirus.

The victim was a 61-year-old man. There have since been no new cases or deaths, Wuhan health authorities said on Tuesday (local time).

Dr Maria D van Kerkhove, the head of the WHO's emerging diseases and zoonoses unit, said the coronavirus held "many similarities" to SARS and MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome).

The origin of the virus has been traced to the Chinese city of Wuhan, where it affected several dozen people who had been to a major meat and seafood market.

"From the information that we have it is possible that there is limited human-to-human transmission, potentially among families, but it is very clear right now that we have no sustained human-to-human transmission," Dr van Kerkhove said.

The WHO has reported the symptom of the virus as fever, with a few persons enduring difficulty in breathing. Chest radiographs show invasive pneumonic infiltrates in both lungs.

Some types of the virus cause less serious diseases, while others — like the one that causes MERS — are far more severe.

The United Nations agency has given guidance to hospitals worldwide about infection prevention and control in case the new virus spreads.

There is no specific treatment for the new virus, but anti-virals are being considered.

With Chinese New Year approaching on January 25, when many Chinese tourists visit Thailand, the WHO called on Thai authorities, the public and holidaymakers to be on alert.

The agency's representative in Thailand said anyone with a fever and cough who had spent time in Wuhan should get checked out by a health worker.