Britain on high alert as deadly mystery virus from China threatens global pandemic 
 Fears are mounting after an outbreak that infected dozens of people and killed one in China is in the process of spreading, with scientists from the WHO telling the world to be on high alert. Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, acting head of WHO’s emerging diseases unit, said hospitals have been given guidance. Dr Kerkhove said: “This is something on our radar, it is possible, we need to prepare ourselves.”

The Organisation is baffled by the virus which has never been seen before.
Tests have revealed it is a type of coronavirus, which is a large family of viruses that cause infections ranging from the common cold to the SARS virus.
More than 40 people are currently injected, with the first case today having been reported in Thailand.
Phuket airport is currently screening arrivals from China.
The outbreak appeared to start in the Chinese city of Wuhan with the first case reported in December.

A woman from China has become the first victim, having contracted pneumonia and died as a result of complications from the virus.
She also said there has been some “limited” human-to-human transmission of the virus, which has symptoms including runny nose, headache, cough, sore throat and a fever.
The disease has spread to infect a current total of 41 people over just two weeks.
The WHO added that cases have mainly been seen in small clusters among family members.
It comes as the first case of monkeypox was confirmed in the UK last month, which had come from Africa.
READ NOW: Archaeology shock: Hundreds of Chinese Terracotta Warriors unearthed [NEWS]

Monkeypox is a rare viral infection, with most cases of the virus reported in Africa.
It’s not spread easily between people and the risk to the general public in the UK is very low.
But while it’s usually a self-limiting illness and most people recover within a few weeks, some individuals can suffer severe illness and it can prove fatal.
The case of monkeypox in the UK has been confirmed in England, and the patient is believed to have contracted the infection while visiting Nigeria.
Public Health England (PHE) has said the patient was staying in South West England prior to transfer to the specialist high consequence infectious disease centre at Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust, London, where they are receiving appropriate care.
DON'T MISS: 
Disease X: Mysterious outbreak in China could be new form of virus [NEWS]
EU panic: ‘Nightmare scenario becoming reality’ for Brussels  [ANALYSIS]
UK security alert: Huawei panic mounts over ‘uncomfortable’ link  [INSIGHT]

As a precautionary measure, PHE experts are now working closely with NHS colleagues to implement rapid infection control procedures, including contacting people who might have been in close contact with the individual to provide information and health advice.
This includes contacting passengers who travelled in close proximity to the patient on the same flight to the UK.
Britain remains on his alert over the disease.