Scientists think killer China virus has affected 1,700 despite only 50 cases 
 The mysterious virus epidemic spreading across China has actually affected thousands of people, scientists now believe.

There have been just 50 confirmed cases of the new virus, but British experts estimate the figure is closer to 1,700 according to the BBC.

So far the killer respiratory illness, which appeared in Wuhan City in December, has killed two people.

The London-based MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis at Imperial College London, published the research on Friday and said the number of affected in the city could be "a total of 1,723" as of January 12.

On Saturday, news emerged from Chinese health authorities revealing they had discovered four more cases of pneumonia following an outbreak of what is believed to be a new coronavirus strain.

Coronaviruses are a broad family of viruses, but there are only six which are known to infect people - the new killer virus would be the seventh.

The mild symptoms of the virus includes causing the common cold, but the severe impact include acute respiratory syndrome (Sars), a disease which killed 774 of the 8,098 people infected in an outbreak in China in 2002.

Analysis of the genetic code of the new virus shows it is more closely related to Sars than any other human coronavirus.

The four individuals were diagnosed with pneumonia on Thursday and are in stable condition, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission said in a statement published shortly after midnight. Saturday's statement marked the first confirmation.

The scientists as the MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis advise bodies such as the World Health Organisation and the UK government.

Singapore and Hong Kong have been screening air passengers from Wuhan and US authorities announced similar measures starting on Friday at three major airports in San Francisco, Los Angeles and New York.

The scientists have detected the scale of the problem through understanding where cases are reported in other countries.

While the outbreak is mainly concentrated in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, there have been two cases in Thailand and one in Japan.

Disease outbreak scientist Professor Neil Ferguson told the BBC: "I am substantially more concerned than I was a week ago."

He that that he is "worried" because of the spread of the disease and how it has travelled to other countries.

He added: "For Wuhan to have exported three cases to other countries would imply there would have to be many more cases than have been reported."

It is impossible to get a precise number, but outbreak modelling, which is based on the virus, the local population and flight data, can provide an estimate.

In total, Wuhan International Airport serves a population of 19 million people, but only around 3,400 travel internationally each day.

As of January 16, 200, 41 cases including two deaths had been confirmed in Wuhan City.

Three confirmed cases were reported in travellers, two in Thailand and one in Japan.

Most cases have been epidemiologically linked to exposure at a seafood market in Wuhan which has been closed since January 1, 2020 in efforts to contain the outbreak.

Although both travellers have a history of travel to Wuhan City, they did not visit the seafood market implicated in the other cases.

Despite the spread of the disease, Professor Ferguson has said it is too early to be alarmist, but that he was "substantially" more concerned than a week ago.

Chinese officials say there have been no cases of the disease spreading from person to person.

Instead, they say it has crossed the species barrier and come from infected animals, and the seafood and wildlife market in Wuhan.

The latest outbreak comes ahead of the Lunar New Year holidays when many Chinese travellers will be travelling to their home towns or abroad to commemorate the occasion.

In total, the Chinese government expects passengers to make 440 million trips via rail and another 79 million excursions via plane during this period.