China Coronavirus: what is it, symptoms, types and does it cause death? 
 OFFICIALS have warned the fatal coronavirus could sweep the globe after two men died in the Chinese city of Wuhan.

Here's what we know about the infection:

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that can cause infections ranging from the common cold to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS).

Some of the virus types cause less serious disease, while some - like the one that causes Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) - are far more severe.

It is an airborne virus, spread in a similar way to colds and the flu.

It is incredibly contagious and is spread through contact with anything the virus is on as well as infected breath, coughs or sneezes.

In 2003 an outbreak of a similar virus, SARS, killed more than 900 around the world within weeks.

The virus may have already spread to Hong Kong, South Korea and Taiwan.

Symptoms include a runny nose, headache, cough and fever, shortness of breath, chills and body aches.

In most cases, you won't know whether you have a coronavirus or a different cold-causing virus, such as rhinovirus.

But if a coronavirus infection spreads to the lower respiratory tract (your windpipe and your lungs), it can cause pneumonia, especially in older people, people with heart disease or people with weakened immune systems.

There is no vaccine for coronavirus.

To help prevent infection, do the same things you do to avoid the common cold such as using alcohol-based anti-bacterial soaps and sprays.

People should also avoid touching their eyes, nose and mouth - and avoid contact with people who are infected.

A coronavirus infection should be treated the same way a cold is treated.

Some types of coronavirus can be serious.

Two men aged 61 and 69 have died in the Chinese city of Wuhan.

The health ministry in Japan have confirmed its first case of the disease after a man in his 30s tested positive.

Officials in Wuhan said last weekend 41 people had pneumonia caused by the new coronavirus and a 61-year-old man had died China's first known death from the virus.

The World Health Organisation also has said it was consulting with Thai and Chinese health authorities after a case was reported in Thailand of a Chinese traveller.

Eiji Hinoshita, an official at the ministry's infectious disease section, said that the man told officials he did not go to the fish market in Wuhan linked to the pneumonia outbreak, but had close contact with at least one person with pneumonia symptoms at a place where he stayed during the visit.