China confirms new coronavirus as it investigates mystery Wuhan illness 
 Chinese scientists investigating a mystery illness that has infected dozens in the central city of Wuhan have said it is a new strain of coronavirus from the same family that caused the 2002-03 Sars epidemic.
Laboratory tests have found a new type of coronavirus and the whole genome sequence of the new virus has been obtained, state broadcaster China Central Television (CCTV) reported on Thursday, citing a task force of experts.
Fifteen patients had tested positive for the new coronavirus, the report stated. It said the virus had been isolated from one of the 15 patients and showed “typical coronavirus morphology” under electron microscope observation.
“The pathogen of these unexplained cases of viral pneumonia was initially identified as a new type of coronavirus,” the report quoted the expert group as saying.


There have been 59 reported cases of the mysterious virus in Wuhan since late December, some of them connected to a seafood market in which wild animals had been sold. The market has since been closed.
Retrospective study identified that the first case had been identified on December 12 and the latest on December 29. No deaths have been reported and eight patients, no longer showing pneumonia symptoms, had been discharged from hospital by Wednesday.
The Wuhan health authority has said that no human-to-human transmission has so far been detected.
China pneumonia outbreak raises spectre of Sars as infections jump to 44
Coronaviruses can infect mammals such as pigs, cattle, cats, dogs, camels, bats and mice, as well as humans. Of the six previously known human coronaviruses, four were common and caused only minor respiratory symptoms similar to those of a cold.
The other two were serious respiratory diseases: the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars) coronavirus that killed more than 700 people worldwide after originating in China, and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus that had caused 449 deaths by 2015.
The CCTV report said that the laboratory had used genomic sequencing, nucleic acid detection, virus isolation and other methods to analyse samples from patients.
Although it is possible to find evidence of a pathogen in a short period of time, it could take years to produce a vaccine.
The expert group said the initial identification needed to be followed up with further research, according to the television report.
Professor David Hui Shu-cheong, a respiratory medicine expert from the Chinese University in Hong Kong, said some important details were still to be established.
“Some key information, including which animal is the source of the virus, the incubation period and the transmission route, are still missing,” Hui said.

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

More from South China Morning Post:Hong Kong takes emergency measures as mystery ‘pneumonia’ infects dozens in China’s Wuhan cityWuhan ‘pneumonia’: Hong Kong health chief under pressure to seek more information from mainland authorities amid silence on latest patient numbersFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.