Report says mystery illnesses may be from new coronavirus 
 Wuhan Municipal Health Commission said 59 people in the central Chinese city were being treated for the respiratory illness as of Sunday. Seven were in critical condition, while the rest were stable.
An electron microscope image of a coronavirus, part of a family of viruses that cause ailments including the common cold and SARS, which was first identified last year in the Middle East.Credit:AP
By Wednesday evening, laboratory experts had found the new virus in 15 of those cases, CCTV said, adding that more research must be done before a conclusion was reached.
Possible cases of the same illness have been reported in Hong Kong and South Korea involving recent travellers to Wuhan.
In Hong Kong, 15 patients with symptoms of respiratory illness were being treated by Sunday. And a Chinese woman who works for a South Korean company was diagnosed on Tuesday with pneumonia, the Korea Centres of Disease Control and Prevention said.

SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, first infected people in southern China in late 2002, and the illness spread to more than two dozen countries. More than 8000 people were sickened and nearly 800 died, but no infections have been reported since 2004. The new illnesses had raised fears of a SARS recurrence.
Loading
Another coronavirus caused MERS, or Middle East respiratory syndrome. That outbreak started in Jordan and Saudi Arabia in 2012 and spread to about two dozen other countries. About 2500 lab-confirmed cases were reported, including more than 800 deaths, with cases continuing to be seen in recent years.
The US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention put out a health alert advising physicians who treat patients with pneumonia-like illness to consider a possible link to the Chinese outbreak and to wear masks and take other precautions in treating patients who recently travelled to Wuhan.
The CDC this week also advised travellers going to Wuhan to avoid animals and sick people and wash their hands often.