China says pneumonia outbreak linked to coronavirus 
 A pneumonia outbreak that has infected more than 50 people in the Chinese city
of Wuhan was caused by a coronavirus, which is the same kind of pathogen
involved in the deadly Sars outbreak in 2003, Chinese state media said on
Thursday.

The outbreak, which comes ahead of the lunar new year holidays in late January
when millions of Chinese will be travelling to see their families, has caused
alarm in the region. The virus has prompted widespread concern on Chinese social
media and triggered memories of the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory
syndrome, or Sars, that infected more than 8,000 people worldwide and killed
more than 700, including almost 300 in Hong Kong.

The World Health Organization said, in a statement issued on Thursday, the
Chinese authorities believed the disease “does not transmit readily between
people”, but noted that it could cause severe illness in some patients.

Chinese health officials said on Sunday that they had identified 59 cases, with
seven patients in critical condition. There has been no further statement on the
possible spread of the disease in China, nor on the health of those who were
severely affected. However, state television said on Thursday that eight of
those who had been hospitalised had been treated in Wuhan, “cured and
discharged”. 

Hong Kong, activated its “serious” response mechanism to the disease last week
and like other parts of the region has ramped up screening at airports. Hong
Kong legislators have called for more transparency from mainland Chinese health
authorities about the outbreak. 

Officials in China covered up the Sars outbreak for weeks before the growing
death toll forced them to reveal the epidemic. International criticism of
Beijing’s handling of the outbreak led to wide-ranging reforms to disease
control methods in the country.

Sophia Chan, Hong Kong’s food and health secretary said on Wednesday that there
had been 38 suspected cases in the territory. However, she said none had been
confirmed as related to the Wuhan outbreak, adding that 21 patients had already
been discharged from hospital.

RECOMMENDED
Anjana AhujaPneumonia outbreak stirs debate over costly virus huntingalt
[https://www.ft.com/__origami/service/image/v2/images/raw/http%3A%2F%2Fprod-upp-image-read.ft.com%2Fac16b7ba-3220-11ea-a329-0bcf87a328f2?source=next=scale-down=best=240]
The virus broke out between December 12 and 29. Some of those infected were
employed at a market selling seafood and live animals in Wuhan that has since
been closed for disinfection, according to Chinese disease control officials.

“The reported link to a wholesale fish and live animal market could indicate an
exposure link to animals,” the WHO said earlier this week.

Coronaviruses in humans usually cause relatively harmless respiratory
infections. However, two are deadly — Sars and Middle East respiratory syndrome
(Mers), which have each caused hundreds of deaths. 

Additional reporting by Nicolle Liu in Hong Kong