Coronavirus protections sought by American Airlines flight attendants 
 Physician and health policy expert Dr. Roger Klein discusses the risk of contracting coronavirus.




The union for American Airlines flight attendants is calling for airlines to add more precautions to protect crew members from the coronavirus.
Lori Bassani, national president of the Association of Professional Flight Attendants, said in a press release that the union wants American Airlines and other airlines to take “immediate emergency measures” such as providing crew with details like signs and symptoms of the coronavirus and procedures to deal with anyone who may be ill with the virus.
DEADLY CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK: WHAT TO KNOW
“The health of our crew members and passengers is a top priority for us and we refuse to compromise their health or safety in any way,” Bassani said. “I am urging American Airlines and all airlines to do everything humanly possible to contain the outbreak and minimize any chance of exposure. We will continue to speak out to ensure airlines are erring on the side of caution and putting our members’ health first in these dangerous times.”
The union represents more than 27,000 flight attendants at American Airlines.
An American Airlines Airbus aircraft is pictured in this file photo. (Photo by Nicolas Economou/NurPhoto via Getty Images)


GET FOX BUSINESS ON THE GO BY CLICKING HERE
Health officials have been screening passengers at five U.S. airports for the virus.
The coronavirus, which causes respiratory illness, originated in China. As of Thursday, more than 580 cases of the virus had been confirmed in China, including 17 deaths. Only one case has been confirmed in the U.S. so far.
CORONAVIRUS NOT YET ‘EMERGENCY’ OUTSIDE CHINA, WHO SAYS
Passengers wear masks to prevent an outbreak of a new coronavirus in the high speed train station, in Hong Kong, Wednesday, Jan. 22, 2020. (AP Photo/Kin Cheung)


Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director of the World Health Organization, said on Thursday that the virus is a public health emergency in China, but it has “not yet become a global health emergency.”
READ MORE ON FOX BUSINESS BY CLICKING HERE