Health unit monitoring coronavirus situation 
 The North Bay Parry Sound District Health Unit “is working with partners to continuously monitor the situation” concerning the Novel (new) Coronavirus in our region and across Ontario.

A statement released by the health unit Thursday points out that there are no confirmed cases of the virus in Canada and the public health risk is “low for Canada.”

“The Public Health Agency of Canada is working with international partners to actively monitor continuous evolution of 2019-nCoV outbreak,” the statement says.

“As of January 22, 2020, the Minister of Health designated 2019-nCoV a disease reportable under Ontario’s public health legislation. This allows for greater monitoring as physicians, hospitals and other care facilities must report a potential or confirmed case of 2019-nCoV to their local health unit’s Medical Officer of Health.”

Ontario has tested four people who reported coronavirus symptoms following travel in China but all proved negative, public health officials say.

The province that was devastated by SARS more than 15 years ago is bracing for the possible arrival of the coronavirus that has killed at least 17 people in Wuhan, China.

Ontario Health Minister Christine Elliott said she remains confident the risk in the province is low, and that federal and provincial public health officials are doing everything possible to prevent the spread of the infection.

“It’s not unlikely that we will receive cases, that this is a new and emerging situation, but I think that it’s really important for everyone to know that we have the necessary processes and procedures and safeguards in place to make sure that we protect all of the people of Ontario,” Elliot said.

A slow response to the SARS outbreak in Toronto was blamed for the spread of that deadly coronavirus.

Some health-care workers told the Toronto Sun’s Liz Braun that more needs to be done, including thermal scanners at airports.

Dr. David Williams, Ontario’s chief medical officer of health, said an estimated 1,500-4,000 people arrive daily in the province from China but there are no direct flights from Wuhan, ground zero for the new coronavirus.

Signage and staff training are being implemented at airports to provide screening, he said.

Ontario has a well-documented issue with so-called hallway medicine, hospitals so overcrowded that emergency room patients are lined up in their corridors.

Elliott acknowledged that some hospitals are over 100% capacity but said there are measures in place to identify and isolate any potential case.

“Staff will be given the necessary protective equipment to protect both themselves as well as to prevent transmission of the virus,” she said. “It’s not unlikely that we will receive cases that this is a new and emerging situation but I think that it’s really important for everyone to know that we have the necessary processes and procedures and safeguards in place to make sure that we protect all of the people of Ontario.”

Cases are confirmed through throat and nasal swabs, and a result is currently determined in about 24 hours.

The health unit advises travellers to take precautions against respiratory and other illnesses while travelling and to seek medical attention if they become sick.

Travellers should avoid high-risk areas such as farms, live animal markets and areas where animals may be slaughtered, avoid contact with animals alive or dead, avoid surfaces with animal droppings or secretions on them, avoid contact with sick people, especially if they have a fever, cough or difficulty breathing and to be aware of the local situation and follow local public health advice.

Travellers are also reminded to wash their hands, cover their coughs and monitor their health.

With files from The Canadian Press