Infected people seen 'dead in streets' in Chinese city Wuhan dubbed 'zombieland' 
 Chilling footage shows people collapsed in the streets as they're treated by medics in hazmat suits in Wuhan, China.

People can be seen lying motionless on the ground in the city which has been placed on lockdown following the outbreak of a coronavirus outbreak.

Wuhan pneumonia is the name for a new coronavirus which has struck down 41 people since breaking out in the Chinese city of Wuhan, which has been dubbed 'zombieland'.

Now a harrowing video clip has been posted on Instagram showing medics in hazmat suits and gas masks tending to man dressed in a suit lying face down as passers-by look on.

It comes as Public Health England confirmed the number of people being tested for the disease in the UK has risen to 14.

A picture also been posted on Instagram shows a man laying flat on his back outside a shop as a medic kitted up in a hazmat suit stands over him.

Witnesses claim the victim,  who was wearing a protective mask, lost consciousness and collapsed while waiting in line for paperwork.

The harrowing scene was witnessed by six people who were wearing white masks.

The deadly coronavirus, which has already killed 25 people, could have been spread by bat soup.

Experts believe fruit bats could be playing host to the virus as researchers have "underestimated" the condition, which is similar to pneumonia and SARS, according to a paper published in the Chinese Science Bulletin.

Wuhan, where the virus originated, has been quarantined, as the virus continues to spread.

Wuhan's local government said it would shut down all urban transport networks and suspend outgoing flights from the city as of 10am today.

There are suggestions the bat soup could be to blame after footage of the unusual cuisine emerged online, reports the  Daily Star .

A grotesque image of a grinning bat with its cooked insides floating amongst broth in a bowl before it is consumed by a woman is turning stomaches across the globe.

A clip showing a girl putting one of the creatures in her mouth with chopsticks while eating with friends has had a similar reaction.

China confirmed 830 cases of the virus so far and 25 deaths.

Symptoms include a fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties and in more severe cases, it can cause pneumonia severe acute respiratory symptoms, and kidney failure.