LAX passenger from Mexico City receives medical treatment amid coronavirus fears 
 After the first case of the new coronavirus from China was discovered in the United States, airlines, airports and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the U.S. have responded to try to mitigate the spread of the deadly respiratory virus.

The new coronavirus, which originated in the central city of Wuhan, China, has so far infected more than 540 and killed at least 17, according to Chinese authorities. Wuhan officials have halted air and train travel from the city and closed public transportation. The virus has spread to Beijing, Thailand, South Korea, Japan and Taiwan.

On Thursday, the World Health Organization declined to formally declare the coronavirus outbreak a global health crisis at this point and said it won't ask airlines and airports to go beyond their current screening efforts.

Here's what we know about coronavirus cases in the U.S. and how the airline industry is trying to stop the spread of the virus.

The latest: China quarantines 20 million people in 3 cities; coronavirus vaccine could be 3 months away

Airline and airport officials in America aren't taking any chances, examining passengers arriving on international flights that may be exhibiting certain symptoms.

There have been three high-profile incidents this week, including one on a flight that did not originate in Asia.

On Wednesday night, an American Airlines passenger arriving at Los Angeles International Airport from Mexico City received medical attention upon arrival, American spokesman Curtis Blessing said.

He was transported to a medical center for disease control for precautionary reasons, Blessing added.

LAX spokesman Heath Montgomery said the passenger was taken to the hospital at the direction of the CDC and county health department.

No other information on the passenger was disclosed. On Thursday, the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health said that to date, there still have been no identified cases of coronavirus there and that the risk is low.

Separately Wednesday, nine passengers on a Cathay Pacific flight from Hong Kong to Boston were evaluated.

None of the passengers had any symptoms, said Samantha Decker, spokeswoman for the Massachusetts Port Authority, which operates Boston Logan International Airport.

On Tuesday, two passengers arriving at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport from Shanghai on Tuesday were stopped after appearing to exhibit symptoms of coronavirus. However, both were eventually cleared and released.

"We continue to follow CDC guidelines and remain in close contact with authorities in the United States and Asia to further ensure the safety of our customers and employees," United spokeswoman Andrea Hiller told USA TODAY.

What is coronavirus, and should Americans be worried? What to know about the outbreak in China

So far, the only known U.S. case is an unidentified man from Snohomish County, Washington, who traveled to Wuhan, China, in November to visit family and returned Jan. 15 on a connecting flight to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport.

County and federal health officials began the painstaking work of tracking the man's travel and contacting individuals who shared flights, public transportation or otherwise came in close contact with him, and public health officials are monitoring at least 16 people who were in close contact with him.

Sea-Tac spokesman Perry Cooper said despite the sick passenger, the airport was determined by CDC to be low-risk. Airport staff were neither discouraged nor encouraged to wear masks or gloves, nor to take other protective measures beyond those normally employed during flu season, he said.

Coronavirus: Suburban Seattle man remains only known US resident with the mysterious new virus

American Airlines President Robert Isom said on the airline's earnings conference call Thursday that the airline is working closely with the CDC, U.S. Customs and Border Protection and public health officials to make sure it is following "best practices'' when it comes to public health issues.

"We're doing that with an intent to make sure that we take care of our customers and team members,'' he said.