Race is on as Australian researchers rush to make coronavirus vaccine 
 The University of Queensland (UQ) is confident it can develop a vaccine for the potentially deadly coronavirus in as few as 16 weeks are two more people in Brisbane are monitored for the virus.

Researchers from the university have been funded by an international organisation to use new rapid medical development technology to help create a vaccine for the new virus strain.

The virus, that's spread from the Chinese city of Wuhan, has infected nearly 830 people and killed at least 25.

Dr Daniel Watterson, a senior research fellow at UQ, said the rush was on to develop a DNA-based vaccine.

"We've built this technology specifically for this type of response, so we're quite confident we can actually target this type of pathogen," Dr Watterson said.

The aim is to create a vaccine in just four months, with delivery of the vaccine then dependent on international agencies.

"We're really under the pump now to see whether we can deliver, but we've already begun the initial stages which involves getting the DNA sequence and putting it into cells to produce the protein," he said.

The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovation, or CEPI, engaged UQ to work on a vaccine, along with other international partners.

CEPI is one year in to a three-year partnership with the university, working on technology developed by UQ to create what's called a "molecular clamp".

It said the system uses a "backbone" that can be rapidly adapted for use against different pathogens — as needed — by inserting new genetic or protein sequences.

"It's basically a portion of a gene that we can attach to the viral proteins which makes them even more stable."

Queensland's Chief Medical Officer, Dr Jeannette Young, said two more people were being tested for potential infection.

"We've already tested four individuals who were suspect cases — all four came back negative," she said.

Dr Young said anyone who felt unwell after travelling anywhere in China should see their doctor.

"We're testing people who've been in Wuhan within 14 days of developing their illness," she said.

Dr Watterson said the vaccine would mimic the surface protein of the virus and trick the body into creating a defence against the real virus.

"The molecular clamp is actually derived for another virus," he said.

"The first thing we need to have in order to make a molecular clamp vaccine is the sequence of the pathogen.

"That sequence became available about a week ago when it was released from Chinese researchers."

Remarkably the researchers don't need the actual virus in order to mimic it and create the vaccine.

"All we need is the information. From there we're able to take that sequence and make a small portion of the virus — so it's not infectious."

The piece of the virus they plan to recreate is what gives the virus its name.

"It's actually called the spike protein that's on the surface of coronaviruses," he said.

It's those spikes which create a crown-like structure: hence the name "corona" or "crown" virus.

The technology was patented by UQ and funded by CEPI, which is providing extra funding to tackle this specific virus.

"We've been awarded additional funding from CEPI along with two other groups internationally," Dr Watterson said.

"At this stage we don't have a dollar figure but basically CEPI is behind us 100 per cent and they'll be willing to do whatever is necessary." he said.

CEPI was founded by Norway and India and is funded by a number of countries and organisations including Australia and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.