Opinion | Is America Ready for Another Outbreak? 
 Second, public health authorities should be candid with the public about the uncertainty that inevitably surrounds a new virus. At this point, we know very little about this new coronavirus, including its source, mortality rate and potential to spread. In order to avoid public panic, health authorities often end up providing false assurances in the face of genuine uncertainty. This “panic about panic” can lead public health authorities to unduly play down the risks associated with an outbreak, which can undermine public trust.
Instead, public health officials should recognize that some level of concern is within the range of normal and expected human responses to emerging threats; they should clearly convey what is known, what is unknown and what is unknowable.
Third, the spread of rumors through social media during public health emergencies is, by now, a well-recognized concern. What is appreciated to a lesser extent is the push within the scientific community to rapidly share study results during emergencies by posting them online. Even for the current coronavirus outbreak, several analyses have been posted online by scientific teams around the world.
While this is a positive trend that can make critical information available in a timely manner, direct sharing of scientific results bypasses the peer review process essential for ensuring the quality of scientific evidence. Interim and sometimes half-baked results can be rapidly amplified through social media.
We know from experience that initial scientific insights often end up being incomplete and, in some cases, outright incorrect. One option for quality control of scientific output in a public health emergency is a rapid peer review entity — perhaps co-managed by major research institutes and funded by global health funding entities such as the Wellcome Trust and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. We need such rapid information and insight, but even more important, we need it to be right.
We are once again faced with the outbreak of an emerging pathogen with potentially global implications. We don’t know how bad it will get. But there is no excuse for not getting ready for the worst. We already know the consequences of inaction.
Saad B. Omer (@SaadOmer3) is the director of the Yale Institute for Global Health and a professor of internal medicine and epidemiology at the Yale School of Medicine and the Yale School of Public Health.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.