At least six people undergoing testing for deadly coronavirus in Australia 
 At least six possible cases of the mysterious coronavirus are currently under investigation on Australia's east coast, after the virus was responsible for the deaths of 25 people in China.

In a statement on Friday, an NSW Health spokesperson confirmed four people were currently being tested for the virus but declined to reveal their locations due to privacy concerns.

"We will update the public immediately of any confirmed cases and need to disclose a person’s movements," they said.

The announcement comes after Queensland's chief health officer Jeannette Young said two people were under investigation in Queensland and another four had been tested and cleared.

Dr Young urged anyone with symptoms of the respiratory disease to immediately see medical professionals.

"We've already tested four individuals who were suspected cases. All four came back negative," she told reporters on Friday. "We've got another two suspects at the moment that we're assessing who may need testing."

So far there have been no confirmed cases in Australia.

The virus originated in China and has already spread to seven other countries, including the US, Vietnam and Japan.

More than 800 people in China are believed to have been infected with the virus, which has led to the lockdown of more than 20 million people, with planes and trains suspended in the Chinese city of Wuhan.

Hours after announcing the Wuhan lockdown, authorities in neighbouring Huanggang city announced public transport and train services would be suspended at midnight, while people were told to not leave the city of 7.5 million.

One of the last planes to leave Wuhan before the lockdown landed in Sydney on Thursday, with health authorities immediately testing all on board.

Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton told Nine News on Friday that Australia had the "world's best protocols in place" to guard against a potential pandemic of the disease.

"I think people should recognise that in a country like ours the health services are the best prepared, best able to respond, and they can quarantine people very quickly," he said on Friday.

The previously unknown virus strain is suspected to have originated late last year from illegally traded wildlife at an animal market.