25 Indians trapped in Wuhan; virus reaches Singapore, Vietnam | India News - Times of India 
 Health officers screen arriving passengers from China with thermal scanners at Changi International airport in...

BEIJING/NEW DELHI: Twenty-five Indian students, of whom 20 are from Kerala, are trapped in Wuhan after the Chinese city of 11 million was locked down to contain the spread of a new strain of a coronavirus , while 14 students interning at a hospital in Yichang, about 300km from Wuhan, planned to fly to Kolkata from Kunming airport on Thursday night or Friday morning."We are closely monitoring the evolving situation in China, including advisories issued by the World Health Organization (WHO) in this connection. The relevant Chinese authorities have assured all assistance to residents of Wuhan, including food supply," the Indian embassy in Beijing said in a statement.The Indian embassy also said that it had been receiving queries from Indians in Hubei province and their relatives in India in connection with coronavirus epidemic in China. The embassy is in touch with relevant Chinese authorities in Beijing and Wuhan and Indians in Hubei Province.The embassy has started two hotlines for those who wish to get in touch with it in this regard: +8618612083629 and +8618612083617.Two of five travellers who have returned to Mumbai from Wuhan and other parts of China have, meanwhile, been admitted to Kasturba Hospital in Chinchpokli, the city’s main isolation facility, as a precautionary measure as the virus, first reported in China, spread to Singapore and Vietnam . It has killed 18 people and affected over 600 in different parts of the world.Officials in Mumbai said that barring a mild cold and cough, the two people admitted to hospital didn’t have any sign of the infection.A nurse from Kerala working in Saudi Arabia who the Indian government said on Thursday had contracted the new strain of a coronavirus that has started to spread from China turned out not to have been infected.Junior foreign minister V Muraleedhraran on Thursday tweeted that an Indian nurse, from Ettumanoor in Kerala, was being treated at Aseer National Hospital for coronavirus. However, Lok Sabha MP Anto Antony, and Ashraf Kuttichal, an accredited volunteer of the Indian embassy who visited the Indian nurse at the Saudi hospital, said no one had tested positive. Quoting one Dr Tareq Alazraqi, Kuttichal said the nurse’s condition was improving. It was also learnt that she was shifted to the general ward from isolation at around 3 pm. Ashraf also gave her a mobile phone at her request.Later, a tweet said that Dr Tarik Al Azraqi, chairman, scientific regional infection control committee, Aseer region, confirmed that the nurse was suffering from MERS-CoV and not coronavirus.In Mumbai, officials said the five passengers were put under surveillance soon after they returned from China in the last 48 hours. While three of them are residents of Jogeshwari, Kalyan and Nala Sopara, two are from Pune. “Since the passengers from Kalyan and Nalasopara have shown signs of a mild cold and cough, we have asked them to come and get admitted to Kasturba Hospital so that we can run some checks and rule out any infection,” said the BMC executive health officer, Dr Padmaja Keskar.Epidemiologist Dr Pradeep Awate said none of them had exhibited any coronavirus symptoms. Two of the five passengers had been to Wuhan, the epicentre of the novel coronavirus outbreak. “Those two passengers are also currently asymptomatic, like the other three who had been to other parts of China,” said Dr Awate.The local health officer said that the Nala Sopara traveller, a woman who had stayed in China’s Foshan city — almost 1,000 km south of Wuhan — for six days, had complained of a bodyache and cold when health department officials contacted her but didn’t have fever, a sore throat, abdominal pain or any other symptom.