The Wuhan coronavirus has spread to 8 countries. Here's how to protect yourself while traveling. 
 A coronavirus outbreak that started in Wuhan, the most populous city in central China, has killed 18 people and infected more than 630.

On Tuesday, the first case was reported in the US. The disease has also spread to at least eight other countries: Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Vietnam, Signapore, Saudi Arabia, and the US.

At first, authorities suspected that the coronavirus — which most likely originated at a seafood market — could be spread to humans only from animals. But they have since determined that humans can transmit the virus to one other.

The coronavirus family is a large group of viruses that typically affect the respiratory tract. Coronaviruses can lead to illnesses like the common cold, pneumonia, and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), which resulted in 8,000 cases and 774 deaths in China from November 2002 to July 2003.

The outbreak's timing is especially worrisome, since hundreds of millions of people are expected to travel to and within China for the Lunar New Year celebration, which begins Saturday and lasts until February 8.

"Travel spreads this kind of virus like wildfire," Adrian Hyzler, the chief medical officer at Healix International, which offers risk-management solutions for global travelers, told Business Insider. "I think we're going to see cases popping up in cities all over the world."

Here's how to stay safe while flying.

Before the Wuhan virus reached the US, it had already started to spread across Asia.

On Tuesday, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced that a man in his 30s living in Washington state's Snohomish County — north of Seattle —had contracted the virus. The man had recently returned from a trip to China and is now in good health.

"I think it's laudable that the Chinese authorities have identified this quickly," Hyzler said. "There seems to be a good sharing of information."

Passengers traveling to the US from Wuhan are being rerouted to one of five airports.

The CDC announced Tuesday that five US airports — New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport, San Francisco International Airport, Los Angeles International Airport, Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, and Chicago O'Hare International Airport — will be screening passengers for the virus.

Airports in Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand, and South Korea are also screening passengers for fever.

"Screening is a very imperfect tool, but it's the only tool we have to try and prevent the importation of a disease," Eric Toner, a senior scientist at Johns Hopkins University, told Business Insider.

Travelers should avoid close contact with people who are sick — particularly those with cold symptoms.