Coronavirus: Pakistan starts screening China passengers 
 Coronavirus: Pakistan starts screening China passengers

ISLAMABAD: Pakistan has started screening passengers coming from China at all airports, as countries around the world scramble to prevent the spread of the deadly disease caused by a new virus named “2019-nCoV”, Geo News reported.
A day earlier, health authorities had issued an advisory warning all the concerned to take precautionary measures. So far, 17 people have been killed and 570 infected from coronavirus in the Chinese city of Wuhan.
Meanwhile, Special Assistant to Prime Minister on Health, Dr Zafar Mirza, said all passengers arriving in Pakistan from China will have to undergo a strict screening at Islamabad, Karachi and Lahore airports.
Talking to PTV news, he said they were closely monitoring the development and screening passengers coming from China. “Many Chinese have gone for new year celebrations and when they return back, they would be strictly screened by the authorities concerned,” he added.
Dr Mirza said the ministry has chalked out a detailed action plan which shall be strictly followed by the airports and the airlines concerned, adding a helpline would soon be activated to facilitate prompt reporting of any possible cases.
“All the hospitals across the country have also been alerted and anyone recently visiting China and found with symptoms of pneumonia, cold, sneezing, coughing and fever have been requested to report to the nearest health facility,” he added.
The special assistant said the Ministry of Health has been closely collaborating with the Chinese embassy and the World Health Organisation (WHO) for uninterrupted monitoring of the recent situation. He said no case has so far been reported in the country.
“Major hospitals in Lahore, Karachi and Islamabad are being linked with surveillance systems on airports, seaports and ground crossings,” he said, adding: “There is no need to be panic as the situation is being monitored and the health department would regularly update masses about the virus.”