GRAINS-Soybeans face second weekly loss on uncertainty over Chinese... 
 SINGAPORE, Jan 24 (Reuters) - Chicago soybean futures slid for a third consecutive session on Friday with the market poised for a second weekly decline amid pressure from a lack of Chinese buying. Wheat is on track for a third weekly gain, while corn is up for a second week. FUNDAMENTALS * The most-active Chicago Board of Trade soybean contract was down 2.3% so far this week, while corn gained 0.8% and wheat climbed 1.5%. * The U.S. Department of Agriculture has not confirmed agricultural sales to China since the countries signed an initial trade agreement last week, in which Beijing pledged to increase imports of American farm products. * The United States is expected to face stiff competition for soybean export sales from Brazil, where farmers are set to bring in massive harvests. * China is the world's top soybean importer and turned to Brazil, instead of the United States, for supplies during the height of the trade war. * The International Grains Council on Thursday raised its forecast for global corn production in the 2019-20 season, driven mainly by upward revisions for China and the United States. * In its monthly update, the inter-governmental body increased its global corn crop forecast by 8 million tonnes to 1.111 billion tonnes, still below the previous season's 1.129 billion tonnes. * Recent rains in Argentina have helped corn and soybean development in the South American nation during its hot summer months, the Buenos Aires grains exchange said on Thursday. * Farmers are nearly done planting an estimated 6.3 million hectares of corn and 17.4 million hectares for the oilseed, the exchange said. * Some key Asian feed makers are having to pay more for higher-quality corn from the Black Sea region as a key traditional supplier, the United States, struggles with a weather-damaged crop. * China, South Korea and Bangladesh have turned to Ukraine for a part of their feed corn demand for February arrival, according to three trade sources and shipping data. * Commodity funds were net buyers of CBOT corn, wheat and soymeal futures contracts on Thursday and net sellers of soybean and soyoil futures, traders said. MARKET NEWS * Stocks made a barely positive start in early Asian trade on Friday after the world's health body called it a little too early to declare a coronavirus outbreak a global emergency. DATA/EVENTS (GMT) 0815 France Markit Mfg, Serv, Comp Flash PMIs Jan 0830 Germany Markit Mfg, Serv, Comp Flash PMIs Jan 0900 EU Markit Mfg, Serv, Comp Flash PMIs Jan 0930 UK Flash Composite PMI Jan 0930 UK Flash Manufacturing PMI Jan 0930 UK Flash Services PMI Jan 1445 US Markit Mfg, Serv, Comp Flash PMIs Jan 1030 IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva, British Finance Minister Sajid Javid, Governor of the Bank of Japan Haruhiko Kuroda, German Finance Minister Olaf Scholz and U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin speak in Davos on the global economic outlook (Reporting by Naveen Thukral, Editing by Sherry Jacob-Phillips)