FOUR suspected coronavirus cases in NSW 
 Health officials are investigating if four people in New South Wales have caught the deadly new coronavirus spreading from China.

A NSW Health spokesperson said on Friday there were still no confirmed cases as the global death toll rose to 25 with more than 800 confirmed cases reported on Friday.

The four people being tested at undisclosed hospital locations mark a dramatic increase on Thursday when only one person was being tested.

Australia's chief medical officer Brendan Murphy said state and territory health authorities would investigate anyone suspected of having the Wuhan coronavirus, and each state has an isolation facility.

Confirmation tests take up to two days however this process is being sped up.

'We've got really good systems to quickly isolate, test and quarantine people,' Dr Murphy told a press conference on Thursday.

The first cases of the deadly virus were reported in Wuhan, China, on December 31 last year where the it is believed to have originated in snakes.

In under a month it has killed 25 people, infected more than 800 and spread to at least eight countries: Thailand, Taiwan, South Korea, Japan, Vietnam, Singapore, Saudi Arabia and the United States.

China has now expanded its quarantine lockdown beyond Wuhan to neighbouring Huanggang city and cities in Hubei province which borders Beijing.

There are risks that people not yet showing symptoms may enter Australia from other locations or may already be here.

NSW Chief Health Officer Dr Kerry Chant said there may be more cases to investigate, as the global death toll from the disease hits 18, and China puts cities neighbouring Wuhan - the epicentre of the virus - in quarantine.

'We are able to rapidly undertake testing of cases that come to our attention and either exclude or confirm those cases in a very short time frame,' Dr Chant said on Thursday.

Experts fear the new Wuhan coronavirus, officially known as 2019-nCoV, may already be in Australia even though no-one in the country has been officially diagnosed.

In an interview with Daily Mail Australia on Thursday morning, Dr Raina McIntyre, professor of global biosecurity at UNSW, said: 'It is possible that someone who is incubating the infection but is not yet ill is in the country.

'People can be incubating the disease and not have fever when they enter the country.'

It comes after hundreds of passengers today arrived in Australia from the Chinese city of Wuhan, the epicentre of the new deadly virus which is spreading around the world.

Passengers from China Eastern flight MU749 were wearing masks as they made their way through Sydney Airport's arrivals hall just before midday on Thursday after a 10-hour night flight on an A332 plane that can hold 234 people.

The flight was one of the last to leave the city of 11 million before a quarantine was put in place and all outbound trains and planes were cancelled.

The passengers were screened in China before they boarded and, when their aircraft landed, they were asked by the pilot to declare if they felt unwell.

NSW Health had a team of four nurses and doctors, who wore masks but not full HAZMAT suits, at the airport to interview passengers and ask them if they had any cold-like symptoms before they went through customs.

The passengers were also screened by thermal imaging to check their temperatures - and given leaflets in English and Mandarin telling them to see a doctor if they suffered sweats, breathing difficulties or chills.

A plan was in place to take any passenger suspected of being infected to Westmead Hospital - but nobody was found to be sick.

The new coronavirus was discovered in Wuhan last month. It is believed to have spread from animals in the city's market and has already killed 25 people and spread to eight countries.

Doctors on Wednesday said the number of cases around the world may be as high as 10,000.