'We thought we had three years': UQ team to fast-track coronavirus vaccine 
 "It is showing some incredibly promising trends but of course, we should caution people that this is the fastest that the vaccine could be made and there are no guarantees of success," he said.
"There is a lot that is still unknown regarding how easily the virus is able to be transmitted between humans."
A team of 20 people at UQ is in the process of creating a vaccine after receiving a DNA sequence from China.Credit:Jocelyn Garcia
Dr Keith Chappell said the team had been preparing for a "rapid response" in the past year, to help develop a vaccine for an outbreak such as this following the Ebola outbreak in 2014.
"We knew these things occur time and time again so [CEPI] wanted to take a proactive approach," he said.

"We thought we had three years ... but it's come a lot earlier than what we had hoped for so we'll go into action straight away.
"We'll do all we can to ensure that we get this vaccine moving as quickly as possible but we need to be completely confident that it is safe and effective.
Australian Institute for Bioengineering and Nanotechnology professor Trent Munro and UQ's School of Chemistry and Molecular Biosciences Dr Keith Chappell in the AIBN lab.Credit:Jocelyn Garcia
"There's a lot of steps ahead of us but we'll try our best."
Dr Chappell said their systems would use a DNA sequence provided by China, produce a protein and deliver it with an adjuvant to develop an immune response.

Dr Chappell said the virus was about 75 per cent similar to SARS so they could use what they knew about it to develop a vaccine.
He said bat viruses were the closest known relative to the virus, but there were "a lot of unknown" facts.
Loading
Dr Chappell said they aimed to produce an injectable dose to send syringes with the vaccine around the world.
"The best-case scenario if everything works perfectly, we aim to have the material ready for dosing humans in 16 weeks and we've got a long way to go to get there," he said.

"Once it's shown to be safe in humans and effective, we'll be manufacturing doses in parallel and hopefully have something that's ready to be used at the scale required as soon as possible.
"Best-case scenario, this will be all over and we're not required. That's what we're hoping for but we're preparing for the worse so [we're expecting to produce] millions of doses."

Jocelyn Garcia is a journalist at the Brisbane Times, covering breaking news.