Indian boxing body offers to host Olympic qualifier - Times of India 
 NEW DELHI: The outbreak of coronavirus in Wuhan has opened a window of opportunity for India to stake a claim to host the Asia/Oceania boxing qualifier for Tokyo Olympics , which was originally scheduled to be held in China's seventh biggest city from February 3 to 14.The event had to be shifted out amid growing concerns over the spread of the virus in other cities and neighbouring regions.The Boxing Federation of India (BFI) has expressed keen interest in bringing the event to New Delhi. BFI president Ajay Singh has written to the International Olympic Committee IOC )-appointed boxing task force's chairman, Morinari Watanabe, informing him about the federation's desire to host the qualifier at the Indira Gandhi (IG) stadium's K D Jadhav indoor hall, which had successfully played host to AIBA's (world boxing body) elite women's world boxing championship in November 2018.The BFI's proposal has been endorsed by Indian Olympic Association 's (IOA) president Narinder Batra, who assured the IOC and Watanabe of extending "full support and cooperation" in organising the qualifier. The sports ministry is also on board with the decision and said it will welcome the hosting of the qualifier."We will welcome such an event. The ministry has identified14 sports disciplines to develop and nurture them for Olympics. During our meeting with sports federations, we told them to bring as many international events as possible to India. So, if an Olympic qualifier is coming to India, we will certainly welcome it," sports secretary Radhey Shyam Julaniya told TOI.But does it worry the ministry that the Chinese boxers, who will arrive in India for participation, along with pugilists from other affected regions like Thailand, Japan and Hong Kong, could possibly be carriers of the deadly virus? "We will follow proper international health protocol to ensure everyone remains safe. Whatever health measures are required, will be taken. If need be, there will be a proper health screening (of boxers and officials). There are no worries," he added.The task force has so far taken no decision to either host the qualifier in some other unaffected city in China or shift it out of China with new workable dates. The task force is expected to take a decision in a couple of days. India is a leading contender, while the Philippines has also expressed interest in hosting the meet.If the qualifier is awarded to India, it will be a big boost for the country's boxers. Playing in home conditions at a familiar venue will give Mary Kom, Amit Panghal and others the opportunity to book a ticket for Tokyo.