Wuhan coronavirus: Cathay Pacific offers refunds on all flights to and from mainland China until end of February, as Hong Kong’s tour agents also cancel bookings 
 Cathay Pacific is among the first carriers to allow passengers to change any China travel plans in the face of the Wuhan coronavirus outbreak following Beijing’s request late on Thursday to all airlines to offer refunds on flights to and from the mainland.

Hong Kong’s flagship carrier said on its website on Friday it would allow passengers flying to or from any mainland China airport to rebook, reroute or take a refund on any type of ticket booked up to the end of February. It is also applicable to Cathay Dragon flights.

On Thursday night, China’s civil aviation regulator urged all airlines and travel agents to offer full refunds without adding any administrative fees for flights to help prevent the spread of the virus.

The blanket policy change is a blow to Hong Kong’s flagship airline, which flies into 23 airports in mainland China, and has been suffering for months from Hong Kong’s anti-government protests and a de facto boycott in China.

Cathay’s move comes as Hong Kong tightened its precautions on tackling the virus, prompting cancellations by local travel agencies on outbound tours to the mainland to pacify worried visitors.

On Friday, Hong Thai Travel announced it was cancelling all outbound tours to China from Saturday to January 31, affecting about 2,500 travellers from around 80 tour groups.

It said the move was taken “in consideration of the health of the staff and visitors”, adding that those who signed up for their China tours could reroute within six months or seek a refund after deduction of administrative fees.

“We also encourage our frontline workers to wear masks to protect the health of our staff and customers,” it said.

Sunflower Travel Service also followed suit, saying it would also cancel all outbound tours to the mainland from Saturday to February 10, affecting about 3,000 travellers.

The firm’s general manager Johnny So said they would reconsider the situation after February 10, and the affected travellers could reroute or seek a refund.

“This is a tough decision but we hope to ease the mind of our customers so they don’t need to worry about their journey. We’ve suffered losses because we already paid for the hotel bookings and other transport fees,” he said.

So believed other travel agencies might have similar arrangements as a number of them had a meeting with the Travel Industry Council on Friday about travellers’ concerns. “We have been getting a lot of inquiries from customers about their China tours,” he said.

On Thursday, Cathay Pacific announced all Cathay Dragon flights from and to the mainland Chinese city, which has been locked down along with Huanggang and Ezhou, would be suspended until February 29. The MTR Corporation also said it would stop selling high-speed train tickets to and from Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak.

The cancellations came after Hong Kong reported its first two cases of the coronavirus on Wednesday, as the death toll on the mainland hit 25, among at least 840 confirmed cases.

The virus has spread to other parts of the world, including Thailand, Japan, and South Korea, while Macau reported its second case on Thursday, a 66-year-old tourist from Wuhan.

This article Wuhan coronavirus: Cathay Pacific offers refunds on all flights to and from mainland China until end of February, as Hong Kong’s tour agents also cancel bookings first appeared on South China Morning Post

For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.