10 things in tech you need to know today 
 Donald Trump says he's not scared of Mark Zuckerberg running for president.
 
 
 
 Getty/Business Insider
 
 
Good morning! This is the tech news you need to know this Friday.A New York Times report shed new light on how The National Enquirer tabloid came to possess intimate photos of Jeff Bezos and his girlfriend Lauren Sanchez. The report suggests that she sent them to her brother, Michael, who sold them to The National Enquirer. Bezos later said they were used to extort him.China's version of TikTok launched a feature to spread awareness and fight Wuhan coronavirus. The coronavirus outbreak that originated in Wuhan, China, has killed at least 18 people and infected more than 630.President Trump said Mark Zuckerberg running for president "wouldn't be too frightening." Trump also praised Zuckerberg's handling of political ads, which Facebook has taken a hard stand on not fact-checking.TikTok revealed its new five-story LA office, showing its commitment to battling US social media giants like Instagram and Youtube. TikTok is owned by Chinese company ByteDance, which is currently seeking a new head for US operations.UK officials are to propose allowing Huawei to build parts of the country's 5G infrastructure, sources told Reuters. The proposal defies intense pressure from US officials to ban Huawei completely from the UK's 5G networks.Tinder's parent company partnered with safety platform Noonlight to add a range of new safety features to its dating apps, TechCrunch reports. The new features include a panic button and user photo verification.Police disputed the claims from facial recognition startup Clearview AI that it had helped solve a terrorism case, BuzzFeed reports. The firm amassed billions of photos of people's faces by scraping social media sites like Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube.Google made a big change to search results that makes it harder to distinguish ads from regular results. Some observers questioned whether Google was trying to intentionally steer users to click on ads through a practice known as "dark-pattern" design.Hungarian-American investor George Soros said President Trump is conspiring with Facebook to get reelected. Speaking at Davos on Thursday, Soros said he thinks there's an "informal mutual assistance operation developing between Trump and Facebook."India wants to send a legless, female humanoid robot called "Vyommitra" into space. Indian prime minister Narendra Modi is looking to establish the country as a major player in the space industry.Have an Amazon Alexa device? Now you can hear 10 Things in Tech each morning. Just search for "Business Insider" in your Alexa's flash briefing settings.You can also subscribe to this newsletter here — just tick "10 Things in Tech You Need to Know.