UK officials hunt 2,000 Chinese arrivals after 14 tested for coronavirus 
 Officials are desperately searching for 2,000 recent arrivals from China after 14 people were tested for the deadly coronavirus.

The arrivals all entered the UK within the last two weeks after flying in from Wuhan, where the outbreak began.

But experts fear it is too late to contain the spread of the virus and that more cases will be declared in the coming days.

Professor Jurgen Haas, head of infection Medicine at the University of Edinburgh told The Sun: “The situation will be pretty similar in pretty much all UK cities with a large number of Chinese students.

“It’s not surprising. My suspicion is that there will probably be many more cases in many other cities in the UK.”

Fears were raised after 14 people were tested for coronavirus yesterday after entering the UK.

While five were confirmed to have tested negative a further nine patients are nervously waiting for their results.

It is understood six of the potential victims are being treated in isolation at hospitals in Scotland and Northern Ireland.

Another three, who are thought to be from England and Wales, are being tested after complaining about feeling unwell.

Chinese authorities have said at least 25 people have died after becoming infected with the virus and the number of cases rocketed to 830.

In a bid to prevent coronavirus from infecting more people, Chinese officials closed Wuhan with Huanggang and Ezhou also set to shut down their transport links in and out of the cities.

Coronavirus has since spread to Thailand, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, Hong Kong, Japan, Taiwan Singapore, South Korea and the US.

UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock has said Britain is prepared for the virus, despite the rapid spread.

He told Parliament: “This is a rapidly developing situation and the numbers of cases and deaths are likely to be higher than those that have been confirmed so far.

“We expect them to rise further. The Chief Medical Officer has revised the risk to the UK population from ‘very low’ to ‘low’ – and has concluded that there is an increased likelihood that cases may arise in this country.”