Wuhan coronavirus outbreak: Singapore confirms 2 more cases 
 Travelers wearing face masks arrive in Sydney Thursday, Jan. 23, 2020, on a flight from Wuhan, China. China closed off a city of more than 11 million people as part of a radical effort to prevent the spread of a deadly virus that has sickened more than 500 people and has begun to spread to other cities and countries in the region. (AP Photo/Rick Rycroft)

SINGAPORE — The Ministry of Health (MOH) on Friday (24 January) confirmed Singapore’s second and third cases of a novel coronavirus which originated in Wuhan, China.

One of the two new cases is the 37-year-old son of the first case, a 66-year-old Chinese tourist from Wuhan.

The other confirmed case is a 53-year-old female Chinese national who is a resident of Wuhan. She is currently warded at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases and in stable condition.

All three confirmed cases are imported.

The announcement - on the eve of Chinese New Year, a major holiday in Singapore - comes as authorities around the world stepped up measures to curb the outbreak originating from the Chinese city of Wuhan, which has left 26 dead and afflicted over 880.

During a briefing which Yahoo News Singapore attended, MOH Permanent Secretary Ng How Yue shared that the woman arrived in Singapore on Scoot TR121 from Wuhan at 5.30am on 21 January. She had one companion.

She reportedly did not have a fever during the flight but developed fever, cough and chills in the afternoon.

She sought medical attention at Raffles Hospital on 22 January and was conveyed to TTSH emergency department by ambulance. She arrived at 8pm and was immediately isolated. The MOH was notified that she was a suspect case at 3am on 23 January and she subsequently tested positive for the novel coronavirus at midnight.

The woman stayed at J8 Hotel in the Jalan Besar area and had visited the Orchard area, Marina Bay Sands and Gardens by the Bay.

At the briefing, MOH also said that they have since expanded the definition of a suspect case and as such, more suspect cases have been notified.

Currently, the definition of a suspect case is someone who has pneumonia and travel history to China within 14 days before the onset of symptoms, or someone with acute respiratory infection and had been to any hospital in China, within 14 days before onset of symptoms.

Out of 44 suspect cases (ranging in age between one and 78) that have been identified, the MOH said that 13 have been ruled out, including the one year old. With three cases confirmed, this means there’s currently 28 suspected cases.

All but two of the the suspect cases, the ministry said, have travelled to China recently. The two who did not travel to China recently were close contacts of one of the confirmed cases.

The MOH added that more imported cases can be expected.