Remy's third quarter sales stymied by Hong Kong protests, as China concerns linger 
 PARIS (Reuters) - French spirits group Remy Cointreau (RCOP.PA) posted a worse-than-expected 11.3% fall in third quarter like-for-like revenues, as demand for cognac in Hong Kong was impacted by protests in the region. 
FILE PHOTO: A bottle of Remy Cointreau is seen in this illustration picture, January 21, 2019. REUTERS/Regis Duvignau/Illustration/File Photo


Slow stock replenishment in the United States, as well as changes in distribution contracts in Europe, also impacted Remy’s third quarter. 
These negative factors more than offset a robust performance in mainland China, where the Lunar New Year, a crucial moment for the drinks industry in that country, starts on Jan. 25.  
This year’s event will, however, take place amid rising concern about a coronavirus outbreak in the country which could also hurt sales of high-end brands exposed to China. 
China, where Remy Cointreau makes an estimated 20% of its  profits, is a key market for Remy, along with the United States. 
The group, which makes the Louis XIII luxury cognac that sells for over $2,000 a bottle, would be particularly vulnerable to a slowdown in China, analysts have said. 
Group sales reached 290.2 million euros (244.98 million pounds)in the three months to Dec. 31, showing a like-for-like decline of 11.3%. This compared with average expectations for a 6 percent decline in a company-compiled poll of 16 analysts. 
Cognac sales alone fell 7.6%, worse than analysts’ expectations for a 2.3% decline. 
GUIDANCE ON HOLD AS NEW CEO ARRIVES 
In December, Richemont’s Eric Vallat replaced Valerie Chapoulaud-Floquet as Remy CEO. Chapoulaud-Floquet had been the architect of Remy’s push towards higher-priced spirits to drive profit margins. 
The group’s share price has more than doubled since Chapoulaud-Floquet, a luxury sector specialist, took over in September 2014 with a strategy focused on selling spirits priced at $50 or more a bottle. The strategy had also benefited from a rebound in Chinese demand. 
The group said it had decided to hold off on previously provided annual and mid-term goals, but it was nevertheless confirming “the pertinence of its value strategy”. 
The publication of the annual 2019/20 results on June 4 will be the occasion to provide a new strategic roadmap, added Remy. 
Reporting by Dominique Vidalon; Editing by Sudip Kar-Gupta