The Chinese city of Wuhan was a breeding ground for an outbreak, experts say. The coronavirus has infected more than 800 people. 
 When Chinese authorities first reported an outbreak of a new coronavirus in Wuhan, China, many public health experts had a similar reaction: It was only a matter of time.

"This has always been waiting to happen," Adrian Hyzler, the chief medical officer at Healix International, which offers risk-management solutions for global travelers, told Business Insider. "Wuhan is such a big city. It's 11 million people."

Hyzler said a few specific conditions put Wuhan at especially high risk of a disease outbreak: the city's density, its role as a transportation hub, and the presence of live-animal markets there.

As of Thursday, the virus (officially known as 2019-nCoV) has killed 25 people and infected more than 830. It has spread to at least eight other countries: the US, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam. Scientists confirmed that it can pass from human to human, and early research indicates that the virus may have jumped from bats to snakes first.

"The people who are likely to die at first will be people who have other illnesses," Hyzler said. "But as it spreads, it'll pick up more people like flu does."

Wuhan is sometimes known as "China's Chicago" because of its proximity to rivers and lakes, but it's about four times bigger. Its population exceeds that of New York City by about 2.6 million.

In terms of land area, the city is more than twice the size of Shanghai and eight times the size of Hong Kong. But people there live tightly clustered within the city limits. Wuhan is the most densely populated city in central China.

Crowded conditions can increase the likelihood of people transmitting infectious diseases, research from the University of Geneva has shown. That's because people in close proximity are more likely to touch, shake hands, or transmit the virus through the air by coughing or sneezing.

On top of that, Wuhan is a major Chinese transportation center. The city is one of China's most important railway hubs, with multiple stations connected to numerous rail lines, including high-speed rail lines that connect to Shanghai and Guangzhou — cities with populations of 24 million and 13 million people, respectively.

The city's Tianhe International Airport serves more than 20 million passengers annually. Wuhan is also an important port city on the Yangtze River, handling more than 1.5 million containers a year. This provides even more channels through which disease can spread.

Wuhan officials have effectively quarantined the city by shutting down transportation, including buses, ferries, and metros. Trains and airplanes coming in and out of the city were also halted.

Its 11 million residents have been told not to leave, barring special circumstances.

The outbreak's timing is especially worrisome, since hundreds of millions of people are expected to travel to and within China for the Lunar New Year celebration, which begins Saturday and lasts until February 8.

"This couldn't have happened at a worse time for Wuhan," Hyzler said.

The Wuhan virus likely originated at a wet market, where locals and visitors shop for meat and produce among outdoor stalls. The markets put people in close contact with live animals, such as chickens, pigs, donkeys, sheep, reptiles, and fish.

These conditions can make it easy for a virus to jump from an animal to human.