172 Chinese tourists arrive in Bohol 
 PANGLAO ISLAND –– At least 172 Chinese tourists arrived at the Bohol-Panglao International Airport (BPIA) on Friday, Jan. 24.

Matthew James Sepe, quarantine nurse at the BPIA, said these tourists came from Chengdu City, the capital of southwestern China’s Sichuan province.

They arrived at 7:42 a.m. on board Pan Pacific Airlines from Chengdu Shuangliu International.

The BPIA services two flights from China Mondays and Fridays.

Some of the passengers wore a mask.

Matthew James Sepe, quarantine nurse at BPIA, said these tourists passed through the thermal scanner before they could proceed to the immigration.

They were then checked one by one again through the thermal scanner.

He said the passengers were allowed to enter the country since none of them had a fever.

Ritchie Dela Fuente, a medical officer, said the BPIA had adjusted the medical quarantine protocol to prevent the entry of coronavirus in Bohol.

The thermal scanner is available only at the international arrivals section.

An individual with a body temperature of 36.5 degrees Celsius would set off the scanner’s alarm.

If that happens, the passenger’s temperature would be checked again with a digital thermometer to confirm if he or she has a fever. If the passenger has a fever, she or he will be placed at the quarantine office.

Personnel from the aviation security group also helped in monitoring passenger security.

According to the Bohol Tourism Office, Chinese tourists topped the number of tourist arrivals, followed by the Koreans.

Boholanos were alarmed after two Chinese nationals aged 2 and 36 were placed under observation in Bohol after showing symptoms of coronavirus.

But they were eventually released from the hospital after swab samples were taken from them.

Acting Bohol Gov. Rene Relampagos said there was no cause for alarm since proper protocols and precautionary measures had been done.

The 2-year-old boy had left the country while officials had contacts with the 36-year-old, he added./lzb