Coronavirus outbreak: Disneyland closed as crisis escalates - 1,000 suspected cases 
 The theme park in Shanghai will be closed to prevent further outbreak of the virus, which has already claimed the lives of 25 people and with more than 1,000 other suspected cases. The resort is located in the district of Shanghai and will be shut from Saturday onwards. The park said the urgent action was required to “ensure the health and safety of our guests and cast”.

Shanghai Disneyland, Disneytown, Walt Disney Grand Theatre and Wishing Star Park will all be closed, a re-opening date is yet to be set.
China is currently beginning a seven-day holiday to celebrate the Lunar New Year and Disneyland has been a hotspot for tourists during this time of year.
Last year the theme park had to stop selling tickets to visitors as it was full to capacity.

In a statement Shanghai Disney Resort said: “In response to the prevention and control of the disease outbreak and in order to ensure the health and safety of our guests and cast, Shanghai Disney Resort is temporarily closing Shanghai Disneyland, Disneytown including Walt Disney Grand Theatre and Wishing Star Park, starting January 25, 2020.
“We will continue to carefully monitor the situation and be in close contact with the local government, and we will announce the reopening date upon confirmation.
“Shanghai Disney Resort will assist in the refund for guests who have purchased tickets for admission to Shanghai Disneyland, have booked a resort hotel, or have booked tickets for ‘Beauty and the Beast Mandarin Production’ through the original ticket purchase channel, and we will introduce the detailed procedure and guidelines via the resort’s official platforms as soon as possible.”
On Thursday the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the new coronavirus an emergency for China but stopped short of declaring the epidemic of international concern.
Chinese authorities has also expanded lockdowns to at least 10 cities putting 33 million people on high alert.
Train stations, the airport and subways are closed across Wuhan, where the illness has been concentrated, and nine of its neighbours in central China's Hubei province.
Masks have been made mandatory in public in Wuhan, and images from the city showed empty shelves in shops as people stock up for what could be an extended isolation.
This is a developing news story, more to follow.