Britain on brink of killer coronavirus epidemic amid fears thousands more are infected with deadly bug after 14 hospitalised 
 BRITAIN is on the brink of a coronavirus epidemic as 14 people are hospitalised by the killer illness.

A desperate hunt has begun for 2,000 recent arrivals from Wuhan in China after the deadly snake flue swept from the nation killing 26.

GPs in the UK have warned that anyone showing symptoms of coronavirus should be lockedown in quarantine to stop it from spreading across our shores like wildfire.

Fourteen people were tested for the virus, with five confirmed negative and nine still awaiting results, Public Health England (PHE) said on Thursday night.

The Scottish Government had earlier confirmed that five people were being examined after presenting with symptoms of the illness, while it was understood that another patient was being tested at Belfast's Royal Victoria Hospital.

PHE would not give a breakdown of where the people were tested and where the negative results were recorded.

After starting in Wuhan, the deadly coronavirus has continued its relentless global march, with the number of nations affected almost doubling overnight.

Confirmed cases have skyrocketed to over 800 in China alone, officials said.

Vietnam, Singapore, Saudi Arabia and Hong Kong all now have confirmed cases — alongside the US, China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand.

But the World Health Organisation last night refused to declare a global public health emergency, saying it was “too early”.

However, officials admitted the committee was split almost 50-50.

Four major Chinese cities are in lockdown with 20million people in quarantine, with evidence of human to human transmission.

Officials have restricted travel in Wuhan, which is home to 11million, as well as neighbouring Huanggang, Ezhou and Lichuan.

Hospitals warned they could not cope with the number of patients turning up with symptoms.

It comes as...

Preliminary research suggested the coronavirus was passed on to humans from snakes at Wuhan’s seafood market.

It has now killed 18 people, with 650 thought to have been infected in ten countries.

Michael Ryan, head of WHO’s emergencies programme, said almost three-quarters of confirmed cases were in people aged over 40, with four in ten having underlying health conditions.

Experts have warned it may prove as deadly as the Spanish flu, which claimed 50million lives.

There are fears that it could accelerate further with millions travelling Chinese New Year celebrations tomorrow.

Britain is now ramping up preparations against the epidemic, Health Secretary Matt Hancock warning yesterday that there will likely be cases in the upcoming days.

Mr Hancock said the UK is “well prepared” to deal with the virus.

He told the Commons: “This is a rapidly developing situation and the numbers of cases and deaths is likely to be higher than those that have been confirmed so far. We expect them to rise further.

“The Chief Medical Officer has revised the risk to the UK population from ‘very low’ to ‘low’ — and has concluded that there is an increased likelihood that cases may arise in this country.”

The NHS 111 helpline has a message encouraging callers to report any flu-like symptoms if they have recently travelled to China.

Experts claim the five potential cases in Scotland and one in Belfast may be the tip of the iceberg.

Professor Jurgen Haas, head of infection medicine at Edinburgh University, said he expected more.

He added: “The situation will be pretty similar in pretty much all UK cities with a large number of Chinese students.

“It’s not too surprising. My suspicion is that there will probably be many more cases in many other cities in the UK.”

And a mum whose baby was diagnosed with a mild strain of coronavirus revealed how her six-month-old son was hospitalised for five days.

Amy Brooks, from Widnes, in Cheshire, said it took baby James eight weeks to recover.

Meanwhile, a student dinner to celebrate Chinese New Year in Edinburgh tomorrow was cancelled over 'health and safety' concerns as fears grow of the killer coronavirus spreading.

A spokesman for Edinburgh University Hong Kong International Society posted on Facebook: "However, we will be re-hosting another gathering dinner later in the future when the virus is controlled."

Shanghai Disneyland has also been closed from Saturday until further notice.

A Scottish Government spokesman confirmed tests had been carried out and said: “Following travel to Wuhan, China, two people confirmed as diagnosed with influenza are now being tested for coronavirus as a precautionary measure only.

Three further people are also undergoing testing on a similar precautionary basis.”

Elsewhere, two police stations were temporarily closed amid fears that a Chinese detainee was displaying flu-like symptoms.

Avon and Somerset Police said the decision to close Patchway police station, near Bristol, and Trinity Road police station in Bristol city centre on Wednesday night was taken as a precaution.

The force said a detainee had fallen ill and there were fears they may have had contact with people who had travelled from Wuhan.

 But it quickly emerged the person did not have the virus.

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.