Is it safe to travel to China? Latest advice as coronavirus triggers lockdown 
 THE city of Wuhan in China is currently on lock down along with two other cities following the outbreak of coronavirus, a contagious virus that attacks the respiratory system.

With reports of 25 deaths in the country and hundreds of people infected across the world, governments are updating their travel advice amid fears of a global crisis.

The virus originated in Wuhan City in Hubei Province but has since been detected across China with Huanggang and Ezhou both shut off as well.

Each city has millions of residents, with trains and public transport in and out halted.

There have also been cases of it in the US, Thailand, Japan and Taiwan, leading to increased health checks at airports across the world.

The World Health Organization has not issued travel restrictions anywhere in the world.

However, they are expected to meet later today to decide on whether to declare "a public health emergency of international concern".

The UK government has warned: "There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus. The virus originated in Wuhan City, Hubei Province but cases have been confirmed in other parts of China. "

Public Health England has also issued a health advisory about what it can mean for travellers.

The update states: "Based on the latest information and analysis, the World Health Organization (WHO) has said that there is evidence of limited human to human transmission of the virus."

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has issued an Alert Level 2.

The advice includes "enhanced precautions" such as avoid contacting with those who have the virus, as well as animals and animal markets if travelling to Wuhan.

They also advise washing hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water, and seeking medical help if displaying symptoms of a fever or cough.

Passengers returning to the US from Wuhan may also have additional health screenings at the airport as well as have to fill out additional documents.

Airports around the world have increased health screenings for passengers to prevent the spread of the virus.

In the US, airports in New York, San Francisco and Los Angeles with flights to Wuhan are undergoing screenings, along with Rome Airport and airports in New South Wales in Australia.

Bangladesh, Russia, Singapore, Japan, Hong Kong  and South Korea are also introducing extra measures at airports.

There are currently three flights from the UK to Wuhan City.

London Heathrow passengers who arrive from Wuhan will be taken through to a separate arrival, according to the latest update from Sky News.

The NHS is in the UK is currently on "high alert" for signs of the virus.

There are fears of coronavirus quickly spreading as more than three billion people are expected to travel due to Chinese New Year.

There is currently no vaccines for the virus.