Coronavirus map shows deadly bug spreading Britain - where will deadly bug hit next? 
 CORONAVIRUS could sweep the nation with 14 Brits hospitalised by the deadly virus and reports of patients in England, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

GPs have warned anyone showing symptoms of the killer snake flu should be kept isolated on lockdown.

So far reports have suggested five people are being tested for the killer illness in Edinburgh and Glasgow hospitals as a "precaution", while a man is being assessed in isolation in Belfast and another in Hillingdon.

Public Health England have not disclosed where the remaining seven people are being tested.

A desperate hunt has begun for 2,000 recent UK arrivals from China after the deadly snake flu swept across the nation killing 26.

There are now concerns the illness could spread across our shores in a similar devastating fashion.

Britain is now ramping up preparations against the epidemic, Health Secretary Matt Hancock warning yesterday that there will likely be cases in the upcoming days.

Mr Hancock said the UK is “well prepared” to deal with the virus.

He told the Commons: “This is a rapidly developing situation and the numbers of cases and deaths is likely to be higher than those that have been confirmed so far. We expect them to rise further.

“The Chief Medical Officer has revised the risk to the UK population from ‘very low’ to ‘low’ — and has concluded that there is an increased likelihood that cases may arise in this country.”

The NHS 111 helpline has a message encouraging callers to report any flu-like symptoms if they have recently travelled to China.

Professor Jurgen Haas, head of infection medicine at Edinburgh University, said he expected more.

He added: “The situation will be pretty similar in pretty much all UK cities with a large number of Chinese students.

“It’s not too surprising. My suspicion is that there will probably be many more cases in many other cities in the UK.”

And a mum whose baby was diagnosed with a mild strain of coronavirus revealed how her six-month-old son was hospitalised for five days.

Amy Brooks, from Widnes, in Cheshire, said it took baby James eight weeks to recover.

Meanwhile, a student dinner to celebrate Chinese New Year in Edinburgh tomorrow was cancelled over 'health and safety' concerns as fears grow of the killer coronavirus spreading.

A Scottish Government spokesman confirmed tests had been carried out and said: “Following travel to Wuhan, China, two people confirmed as diagnosed with influenza are now being tested for coronavirus as a precautionary measure only.

Three further people are also undergoing testing on a similar precautionary basis.”

Elsewhere, two police stations were temporarily closed amid fears that a Chinese detainee was displaying flu-like symptoms.

Avon and Somerset Police said the decision to close Patchway police station, near Bristol, and Trinity Road police station in Bristol city centre on Wednesday night was taken as a precaution.

The force said a detainee had fallen ill and there were fears they may have had contact with people who had travelled from Wuhan.

But it quickly emerged the person did not have the virus.

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.