Disneyland closed over coronavirus outbreak as cities placed on lockdown 
 A Disneyland in China has been shut over the deadly coronavirus outbreak.

In a statement, the Shanghai Disney Resort said: "In response to the prevention and control of the disease outbreak and in order to ensure the health and safety of our guests and cast, Shanghai Disney Resort is temporarily closing Shanghai Disneyland, Disneytown including Walt Disney Grand Theatre and Wishing Star Park, starting January 25, 2020."

Bosses said they feared the disease could infect visitors and staff.

So far 26 people have died and more than 800 infected.

Cities have also been placed on lockdown.

China is on a seven-day Lunar New Year holiday starting Friday, a period when the Shanghai Disney park would be usually packed with tourists.

Many businesses including retailers, airlines, travel agencies and hotel operators are on high alert, as a new coronavirus outbreak overshadows the week-long holiday plans.

China has expanded lockdowns to at least 10 cities in a bid to contain the coronavirus outbreak.

The country is building a hospital dedicated to treating patients infected with the virus that has killed at least 26 people so far.

On the eve of the Lunar New Year, one of China's most important holidays, transportation has been shut down in at least 10 cities with a total of about 33 million people.

The cities are Wuhan, where the illness has been concentrated, and nine of its neighbours in central China's Hubei province.

The Wuhan government said it is building a designated hospital with space for 1,000 beds in the style of a facility that Beijing constructed during the Sars epidemic. The hospital is expected to be completed on February 3, according to authorities.

Masks have been made mandatory in public in Wuhan, and images from the city showed empty shelves in shops as people stock up for what could be an extended isolation. Train stations, the airport and subways are closed.

Authorities are taking precautions around the country. In the capital, Beijing, major public events have been cancelled indefinitely, including traditional temple fairs that are a staple of Lunar New Year celebrations. Two major tourist destinations, Beijing's Forbidden City and Shanghai Disneyland, announced they will close indefinitely on Saturday.

The number of confirmed cases of the new coronavirus has risen to 830, the National Health Commission said. Some 26 people have died, including the first two deaths outside Hubei.