Cases of China virus 'highly likely' in UK 
 Image copyright
                 EPA
                
            
            
            
                Image caption
                
                    A health team are available at Heathrow Airport for travellers from China
                
            
            
        Cases of the new strain of coronavirus in the UK are "highly likely", a Public Health England (PHE) boss has said. 
However, most of those affected abroad by the virus were making a good recovery, Prof Paul Cosford, medical director at PHE, added.
So far 14 people have been tested in the UK, with nine people awaiting results and five getting the all-clear. 
Globally, there are more than 800 confirmed cases of the virus, which has killed 26 people in China.
All the people who have been tested in the UK had visited Wuhan - the Chinese city where the virus first broke out - in the last 14 days.
In Scotland, where five people were tested, an incident team has been set up to deal with the health threat. Four of the patients were believed to be Chinese, Downing Street said. 
Those tested in the UK included one person in Wales, who was given the all clear last week, and one man in Belfast.
Prof Cosford told the BBC "we will not be surprised" if people return from China to the UK with the infection, which can cause lung problems such as pneumonia.
"I think it's highly likely that we will have cases in the UK - and of course every so often we do get new infections coming from the animal kingdom such as this one."
He added: "These are early days yet with this virus. The vast majority of people who are infected do seem to be getting better. 
"The people who have done particularly badly, and sadly died, they seem to be people who have other conditions that might make them more likely to suffer badly with this virus." 

            
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 EPA
                
            
            
            
                Image caption
                
                    There are no planes or trains in or out of Wuhan, where people are being treated
                
            
            
        Health Secretary Matt Hancock said on Thursday there was an "increased likelihood" of cases of the virus occurring in the UK, but "we are well prepared" to deal with them.
The Foreign Office has advised against all but essential travel to Wuhan and the UK is monitoring direct flights arriving from China as a precaution.
Passengers are receiving leaflets and advice on what to do if they fall ill, and a health team is available at Heathrow Airport to check for symptoms.

            
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        What should you do if you think you have the virus?
Public Health England is advising anyone who has been to Wuhan within the past 14 days and has developed respiratory symptoms to phone NHS 111.
Those symptoms include a cough, a sneeze, shortness of breath, or a fever. 
People who are concerned should phone ahead before going to any medical facility and mention their recent travel to the city.
PHE also advises anyone travelling to China to maintain good hand, respiratory and personal hygiene, and avoid visiting animal and bird markets or people who are ill with respiratory symptoms. 
The agency is currently not advising people to wear face masks. 

            
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        China has widened a lockdown in Hubei province - the centre of the coronavirus outbreak. The travel restrictions will affect at least 20 million people across 10 cities.
The lockdown comes on the eve of Lunar New Year - one of the most important dates in the Chinese calendar, when millions of people travel home.
The virus has spread across China and to countries as far as Japan, Thailand and the US.

    
            
            Media playback is unsupported on your device

      
    
    Media captionWhat's life like in quarantined Wuhan?
The World Health Organization has not classed the virus as an "international emergency", partly because of the low number of overseas cases, but said it "may yet become one".
Peter Piot, professor of global health and director of the London School of Hygiene  Tropical Medicine, said: "The good news is that the data to date suggests that this virus may have a lower mortality than Sars, we have a diagnostic test and there is greater transparency than decades gone by.
"And that is essential because you cannot deal with a potential pandemic in one country alone."

            
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        What do we know about the virus?
Currently known as 2019-nCoV, the virus is understood to be a new strain of coronavirus not previously identified in humans. 
The Sars (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) virus that killed nearly 800 people globally in the early 2000s was also a coronavirus, as is the common cold.

    
            
            Media playback is unsupported on your device

      
    
    Media captionThe BBC's online health editor talks us through what we know about the virus
The first human cases were identified in the Chinese city of Wuhan in December 2019. There have not been any other suspected human cases reported prior to this.
Authorities have said it originated in a seafood market that "conducted illegal transactions of wild animals". 
The market has been shut down since the beginning of the year.
The incubation period (how long it takes for symptoms to appear after catching the infection) is days, rather than weeks.
At the moment, there is no vaccine that can protect people against it, but researchers are looking to develop one.
Learn more about the new virus

            
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Getty
                
            
            
        
            
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Have you been affected? Share your experiences. Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways: