Coronavirus panic as ‘Chinese woman with fever’ boasts of cheating airport scans 
 A CHINESE woman has boasted how she took tablets to cheat airport scanners looking for symptoms of the coronavirus.

The woman boasted how she managed to leave the city of Wuhan, where the outbreak is centred, and make it to France, which left Chinese embassy there desperately trying to track her down.

The outbreak of the virus has so far killed 26 people with 800 more confirmed cases and has led to the authorities in China placing the city of Wuhan, where it originated, under lockdown.

Nine people in the UK have been tested for the virus and a further 2000 people who arrived from Wuhan are also being sought.

Vietnam, Singapore, Saudi Arabia and Hong Kong all now have confirmed cases — alongside the US, China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand.

It comes as...

The woman boasted on social media how she managed to leave the city by eluding thermal scanners despite suffering from a fever.

She left Wuhan last year before flights were suspended, but when thermal scanning was in place, the BBC reports.

After arriving in France she posted pictures on the WeChat social media platform of her eating at a Michelin stared restaurant in Lyon.

"Finally I can have a good meal, I feel like I've been starving for two days. When you are in a gourmet city of course you have to eat Michelin [food]," she wrote.

"Just before I left, I had a low fever and cough. I was scared to death and rushed to eat [fever-reducing] medicine. I kept on checking my temperature. Luckily I managed to get it down and my exit was smooth."

The Chinese embassy in France says it has now managed to track her down and asked her to seek medical attention.

It said she had taken antipyretics, which work to reduce body temperature, and she is no longer has a fever or cough.

As well as Wuhan, the Chinese authorities have quarantined nine other cities in Hubei province with total population of 33 million people as they desperately try to contain the virus.

A 1000 bed prefabricated hospital dedicated to patients infected is also being built as existing ones struggle to cope with the numbers.

There are fears that it could accelerate further with millions travelling for Chinese New Year celebrations.

At least eight hospitals in Wuhan issued public calls for donations of masks, googles, gowns and other protective medical gear.

Shocking images from Wuhan show residents lying lifeless on the ground in a city that had become dubbed “zombieland” by desperate locals.

Harrowing pictures on social media show people collapsed on the street and in hospital waiting rooms.