Coronavirus outbreak sparks desperate hunt for 2,000 China arrivals to UK 
 A 'desperate' hunt is said to be underway for around 2,000 arrivals from China who all landed in Britain within the last two weeks.

The coronavirus, believed to have originated in the city of Wuhan, is currently wreaking havoc in China and spreading around the world - and British authorities say it is only a matter of time until it arrives here too.

As the number of cases from the deadly, flu-like illness mount, no patients have been confirmed in the UK yet.

However, a top Public Health England boss (PHE) has said it is 'highly likely' the coronavirus outbreak will spread here.

PHE officials said last night that 14 people in the UK had already been tested for the virus, with five given the all clear and eight more awaiting results.

The health body has yet to provide the latest figures today, as health authorities around the UK work to stop the virus spreading here.

Reports say officials are urgently trying to retrace 2,000 recent arrivals in Britain from China.

The death toll in China has risen to 26 this morning, with more than 830 confirmed cases.

The Scottish Government confirmed on Thursday that five people were being tested after presenting with symptoms of the illness. 



Another patient is believed to be being tested at Belfast's Royal Victoria Hospital, according to the Guardian.

Two of those being tested in Scotland had been diagnosed with flu after travelling to Wuhan in China - the origin of the global outbreak.

Professor Paul Cosford, emeritus medical director at PHE, told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme it is still "early days" in the course of the virus.

He stressed that most of those affected abroad are making a good recovery, but added it was "highly likely" that cases would be seen in the UK.

Prof Cosford said: "We will not be surprised if people return from China to the UK with the infection, the important thing is that if you are one of those people and you develop symptoms you get in touch quickly.

"We are testing anybody who meets the criteria. The numbers aren't the important thing, the important thing is that anybody who has been to Wuhan in the last 14 days and has symptoms, respiratory symptoms that could represent this virus... that we ask them to phone NHS 111 and then we can arrange any appropriate testing."

He said there was no precise figure for how many people have been in contact with the NHS who may have symptoms.

He added: "It's important that while you do make contact with us, that you keep yourself away from too many other people, because of course if you have been infected, it's important that we prevent spread."

Prof Cosford added that all GPs and hospitals across the country have had letters from public health bosses advising them that if somebody does present with symptoms and they are worried, they will be put somewhere where they won't infect other people while they're assessed for the virus.

Asked if face masks could provide protection, Prof Cosford said PHE was not advising people to use face masks at the moment, but is monitoring developments carefully.

He said: "These are early days with this virus, the vast majority of people who are infected do seem to be getting better.

"The people who have sadly died do seem to have other conditions that might make them more likely to suffer badly with this virus."

Protective measures like face masks have been selling out in China, as some of the symptoms of the flu-like virus include fever, sneezing and coughing.

At least ten cities in China remained in lockdown today as authorities there work to contain the SARS-like illness.

The virus is believed to have been passed from animals to humans at a market in Wuhan, a city of 11 million.

Cases have been confirmed in the US, Singapore and South Korea.

China has cancelled Lunar New Year celebrations and closed top tourism sites including Disneyland in Shanghai, the Forbidden City in Beijing and a section of the Great Wall of China in a bid to control the disease.

They are scrambling to halt further contamination amid fears millions travelling around China and heading to other parts of the world will spread the virus even further.