'Dead bodies pile up on floor' at hospital unable to cope with coronavirus 
 Disturbing video allegedly shows three dead bodies on the floor of a hospital struggling to cope with China's coronavirus outbreak.

Nurses and others are seen stepping around the bodies, which are covered by white sheets, in a corridor packed with people apparently infected with the SARS-like virus.

Staff are wearing full-body protective suits while people waiting to be seen or given a bed are wearing masks.

The video is making the rounds on Weibo, a social media network in China, after it was posted by a woman claiming to be a nurse at a Wuhan hospital, which has been overwhelmed by the crisis.

The woman wrote that staff and patients were "stuck" with the bodies of three patients because no-one was available to take them away.

Have you been affected by coronavirus? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk

Hospitals in and around Wuhan - ground zero for the outbreak - are seeing hundreds of new cases every day and they have been stretched to the limit during a health crisis that has killed at least 26 people and infected more than 800 others.

Videos have emerged on social media showing people with suspected cases collapsed in the streets or on floors at hospitals and clinics.

Hospitals in Wuhan - where the outbreak began late last month - are running out of masks, goggles and protective suits as the number of cases soars.

At one overwhelmed hospital, a tent city has been set up in a car park to treat patients because there is no room inside.

Workers are racing to build a 1,000-bed hospital from scratch in less than a week to cope with the rising number of patients.

Thomas Yau, a journalist with the South China Morning Post, shared the footage the allegedly shows dead bodies on the floor at the Red Cross hospital in Wuhan.

He tweeted: "A weibo video posted by a person claiming to be a nurse in #Wuhan Red Cross Hospital. She said medical workers and patients were stuck with three deceased in a packed hospital corridor. No one is here to take care of the bodies."

A British teacher is trapped in the epicentre of China's coronavirus outbreak and afraid to leave his home.

Kharn Lambert, who lives in Wuhan, said a blanket of fear has gripped the city of 11million people, which has been locked down in a desperate bid to prevent the flu-like virus from spreading.

The PE teacher, from Lancaster, Leicestershire, and other residents have been told not to leave Wuhan, where the virus is believed to have originated at a live animal market, because public transport has been shut down.

He has told how the normally bustling streets are "dead" at the start of the Lunar New Year, a week-long major holiday usually filled with public celebrations and feasts.

Mr Lambert told the BBC that his neighbourhood has become unrecognisable.

He said: "If you saw the street behind me at night time where I normally live, it’s a very vibrant street, lots of restaurants and it’s open until 2am and Chinese families come to celebrate.

"But if I show you out there now, it’s dead."

He agreed a "blanket of fear" had been cast over Wuhan, adding: "100 per cent."

Earlier, an Irish teacher living in Wuhan told how he had been holed up in his flat for "two or three days" as the outbreak unfolded.

Ben Kavanagh, who is on a break from work due to the Lunar New Year holiday, said he would have to leave his home soon and venture out into the "ghost town" to stock up on food.

When he does, he will wear a surgical mask over his mouth and nose and swimming goggles over his eyes to protect himself.

Mr Kavanagh told RTE Radio’s Morning Ireland:“You are allowed out, but there are so many rumours and people are worried, it’s better not to.

Mr Kavanagh said there were fears the virus can spread through contact with the eyes and as a result people were wearing eye protection in addition to masks.

He added: “I have enough water for a few more days, but I will probably have to head out to the shops for food.”

The teacher plans to wear a mask over his face and swimming goggles over his eyes when he leaves his flat.

“I have no idea what to expect,” he said.

He said a dual carriageway near his home is normally very busy but is now quiet, and

Mr Kavanagh has heard that the price of some items at the supermarket, including celery, had tripled amid the panic in Wuhan.

At least 13 cities in China are on lockdown, essentially trapping more than 41million residents.

The new strain of the flu-like virus has started to spread around the world, with confirmed cases in the US, Singapore and South Korea, and more than a dozen people being tested in the UK after they showed signs of the disease.

In China, Lunar New Year celebrations have been cancelled and entertainment venues, including Shanghai's Disney resort, have been shuttered in a desperate bid to prevent the disease from spreading even further.

Part of the Great Wall of China has been closed to tourists, and McDonald's has closed a number of restaurants in the affected region.

In a statement, the Shanghai Disney Resort said: "In response to the prevention and control of the disease outbreak and in order to ensure the health and safety of our guests and cast, Shanghai Disney Resort is temporarily closing Shanghai Disneyland, Disneytown including Walt Disney Grand Theatre and Wishing Star Park, starting January 25, 2020.

"We will continue to carefully monitor the situation and be in close contact with the local government, and we will announce the reopening date upon confirmation."

The theme park had planned a "Year of the Mouse" celebration to coincide with Lunar New Year festivities and the beginning of the Year of the Rat.

It is one of the busiest weeks of the year for Shanghai Disneyland.

There are fears the new coronavirus will spread rapidly as hundreds of millions of Chinese residents travel domestically and abroad for the seven-day Lunar New Year holiday, which began on Friday.

In Hong Kong, a couple who fell ill following a trip to Wuhan were caught trying to flee a hospital where they were being put into isolation.

It is believed the virus was passed from animals to humans at a market in Wuhan in central China.

The market, which traded in illegal wildlife and has since been shut down, sold live animals and seafood and many of the first patients had either worked there or visited.

The number of cases has been rising by the hundreds every day, forcing China to seal off Wuhan and other nearby cities, and shut down public transport, including flights, train services and long-distance buses.

In Wuhan, police armed with assault rifles and wearing full-body protective suits and masks have been standing guard.

The nearby city of Huanggang, home to seven million people, has also suspended public transport and closed public venues, including cinemas, as at least ten cities implement travel restrictions.

Beijing has closed the Forbidden City to tourists and cancelled large gatherings for Lunar New Year, including temple fairs.

Singapore confirmed two more cases on Friday, bringing the total to three. All three involved patients who had travelled to the island city-state from China.

Thailand has reported four cases, Japan, Vietnam and South Korea have each reported two, and Taiwan and the US have each reported one.

Prof Paul Cosford, the medical director of Public Health England, said it was "highly likely" cases would be seen in Britain.

The World Health Organisation has so far stopped short of declaring it a global health emergency.

Symptoms include fever, cough and difficulty breathing, and it can lead to pneumonia.

The virus is mutating and can be transmitted through human contact, according to health experts in China.

There is no vaccine and experts say it could be a year before one is ready for mass use.

Those most affected are older people and those with underlying health conditions.

The source of the illness was a mystery, but experts have suggested that it may have been passed to humans from snakes sold at the market.

The snakes could have been infected by bats, according to the experts.