Deadly coronavirus closes Great Wall of China as 41 million put on lockdown 
 The most popular section of the Great Wall of China is closing to visitors to prevent the spread of SARS-like coronavirus.

The Badaling section of the wall, about 50 miles north-west of Beijing, draws thousands of tourists every day.

A number of major tourist sites are closing down until further notice due to the outbreak, which has killed at least 26 people and infected more than 800 others in China.

Others include Beijing's Forbidden City and Shanghai's Disneyland theme park as at least 13 cities are locked down, affecting more than 41million residents.

Have you been affected by coronavirus? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.

There are fears the virus could spread rapidly during the ten-day Lunar New Year holiday, which will see hundreds of millions of Chinese residents travel domestically and abroad.

The World Health Organisation has stopped short of declaring a global emergency.

Chinese authorities have advised people to avoid crowds, and residents of Wuhan - where the outbreak started late last month - have been told not to leave the city of 11million.

Beijing also cancelled two Lunar New Year temple fairs and closed the Forbidden City, its most famous tourist attraction.

Some famous temples have also been shut.

Shanghai Disneyland, which has a 100,000 daily capacity, will close from Saturday.

Hospitals in Wuhan are struggling to cope with the outbreak and they have been running out of beds and supplies such as masks, goggles and suits.

At one overwhelmed hospital, tents have been set up in the car park to treat patients because there is no longer any room inside.

Residents are essentially trapped there because flights out of the city have been grounded, trains and buses have been cancelled, and motorway toll booths are shut.

Police officers armed with assault rifles and full-body protective suits have been seen standing guard.

Wuhan was building a 1,000-bed hospital for the infected and aimed to have it ready by Monday.

Prefabricated buildings were going up around a holiday complex originally intended for workers, set in gardens by a lake on the outskirts of the city.

Television footage showed about 30 mechanical diggers clawing at brown earth preparing the site.

Wuhan hospitals called for donations of protective equipment such as masks and suits, as supplies ran low.