Coronavirus symptoms - what is it and how does it spread? 
 OFFICIALS have warned coronavirus could sweep the globe after the infection has killed 26 people in China while 830 have been infected.

14 have been tested for coronavirus in the UK with many still unclear about what exactly the virus is.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that can cause infections ranging from the common cold to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS).

Some of the virus types cause less serious disease, while some - like the one that caused Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) - are far more severe.

In 2003 an outbreak of a similar virus, SARS, killed more than 900 around the world within weeks.

The virus may have already spread to Hong Kong, South Korea and Taiwan.

In most cases, you won't know whether you have a coronavirus or a different cold-causing virus, such as rhinovirus.

But if a coronavirus infection spreads to the lower respiratory tract (your windpipe and your lungs), it can cause pneumonia, especially in older people, people with heart disease or people with weakened immune systems.

There is no vaccine for coronavirus.

To help prevent infection, do the same things you do to avoid the common cold such as using alcohol-based anti-bacterial soaps and sprays.

People should also avoid touching their eyes, nose and mouth - and avoid contact with people who are infected.

A coronavirus infection should be treated the same way a cold is treated.

Coronavirus is an airborne virus, spread in a similar way to colds and the flu.

It is incredibly contagious and is spread through contact with anything the virus is on as well as infected breath, coughs or sneezes.

This means that anyone who is infected can pass it on to any surface or person they breathe on or touch.

26 people have now died and 830 have been confirmed infected as of Friday, January 24, according to China's health authority.

The virus could be declared a global health crisis after cases of the mystery bug previously quadrupled in just four days.

The first deaths were two men aged 61 and 69 in the Chinese city of Wuhan.

Another victim from Wuhan includes an 89-year-old man, who died after experiencing breathing difficulties.

The Wuhan Municipal Health Commission confirmed that a 66-year-old man and a 48-year-old woman died on January 20.

In spite of efforts to contain the virus, it has gone international.

On January 21, the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention in the US confirmed a person had been struck down by the virus.

A man in Australia is currently in isolation after he returned from Wuhan and started suffering from a respiratory illness.

He is undergoing tests to determine if the virus has reached Australia.

There are further confirmed cases in Taiwan, South Korea, Thailand, and Japan, where a man in his 30s tested positive.

There are cases in 13 areas within China including cities like Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzen.

Fifteen healthcare professionals are among those infected.

However, experts at Imperial College London predict the true number of cases could be far greater - with estimates closer to 1,700.