Brit university to quarantine students over coronavirus fears as disease spreads 
 The University of Chester is taking drastic measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus in Britain.

The school has notified students they won't be readmitted to class until after a quarantine period if they travel to China for Lunar New Year celebrations.

Anyone returning from the country will have to stay home for a certain period of time before being allowed back on campus.

It's unknown how long the quarantine period will be for. Beijing officials have urged anyone returning from the virus-affected Hubei province to stay home for 14 days before returning to school or work.

The University of Manchester has also offered coronavirus advice to students who may have or intend to travel to China recently.

There are almost 5,000 students of Chinese descent at Manchester, some of whom will likely travel there for New Year celebrations this weekend.

The University of Manchester's Occupational Health Service has told students to visit the Public Health England website for advice on staying healthy.

"The PHE has offered updated advice which should be helpful to travellers to the area regarding this as well as the ongoing avian flu risk," the university has said.

Universities have followed Foreign Office advice warning people not to travel to Wuhan, where the virus is believed to have originated.

Vice-chancellors' group Universities UK said: "Ensuring the safety and welfare of their students is a top priority for universities.

"UK universities have been monitoring the coronavirus situation as it unfolds and universities with students in affected areas are working to identify appropriate actions.

"Universities will continue to follow the latest FCO advice and to monitor the situation, which is evolving rapidly."

So far the disease has killed 26 people and infected more than 800 in several different countries.

Nine potential infected Brits are still waiting on test results to confirm if they have the virus.