Woman who 'bragged about cheating coronavirus tests' is tracked down 
 The Chinese embassy in France has tracked down a woman who bragged about avoiding airport screening for the coronavirus in the outbreak's epicentre.

The woman boasted on social media that she'd been suffering from a fever but took tablets to mask her symptoms so she could fly from Wuhan.

She later posted photos apparently showing herself dining at a Michelin star restaurant in Lyon.

The Chinese consulate in Paris has now confirmed the woman's symptoms are under control.

She had left the city of Wuhan, in China's Hubei province, where the killer virus was first detected in late December.  It's not clear exactly when she left China or arrived in France.

Since Thursday, all planes had been grounded as the city was quarantined to try curb the deadly virus that has killed 26 and infected more than 800 people.

'Just before I left, I had a low fever and cough. I was scared to death and rushed to eat [fever-reducing] medicine,' the woman tweeted, according to the BBC.

'I kept on checking my temperature. Luckily I managed to get it down and my exit was smooth.'

Officials had temperature scanners in operation at the time she was flying, refusing to allow anybody with signs of a fever from boarding the flight.

The woman said that she had used anti-fever medicine to keep her temperature down.

The woman detailed her journey to Lyon on the Chinese social media site WeChat.

'Finally I can have a good meal, I feel like I've been starving for two days. When you are in a gourmet city of course you have to eat Michelin [food],' she wrote, according to the BBC.

'Just before I left, I had a low fever and cough. I was scared to death and rushed to eat [fever-reducing] medicine. I kept on checking my temperature. Luckily I managed to get it down and my exit was smooth.'

Her post went viral and she was criticised by other social media users.

The Chinese embassy in Paris said it had received calls and emails about the woman.

The embassy told French media it would remain in touch with the woman and update them on any developments.

It added that she did not require "further examinations" at this point.

Coronavirus has spread to countries as far as South Korea, Japan and the US.

China has quarantined more than 40million people i n 14 cities.