Everything we know about coronavirus - deaths, UK cases and what's being done 
 A new strain of the coronavirus virus that has already claimed the lives of 26 people could spread around the world, with British health bosses saying a UK case is "highly likely".

Currently known as 2019-nCoV, the virus is believed to have originated at a seafood market in China with the country now reporting at least 800 cases.

It's from the same family as SARS, which killed almost 800 people in 2000, and there are fears the spread of the virus will accelerate this weekend as millions of people travelling to celebrate Chinese New Year.

China is struggling to cope with the huge demand on resources, with hospitals in and around Wuhan - ground zero for the outbreak - seeing hundreds of new cases every day.

Video has emerged on social media of dead bodies 'piling up on the floor' as staff try to keep up with the growing number of cases.

There is also a shortage of masks, goggles and protective suits as the number of cases soars.

Several people in the UK have been tested for the virus, and a Public Health England boss has said a case here is "highly likely".

The World Health Organisation has stopped short of declaring a global emergency.

As it's a virus, there is no treatment or vaccine and it doesn't respond to antibiotics. Patients can be given medicine to help the pain, but that's it.

Here's everything we know about the virus so far.

There have been more than 800 confirmed cases of the virus around the world, and 26 people have died as a result in China.

However most people affected are making a good recovery.

Have you been affected by coronavirus? Email  webnews@mirror.co.uk.

Fourteen people in the UK have been tested for coronavirus with five confirmed negative and nine still awaiting the results, Public Health England announced on Thursday night.

Two are in Glasgow, one in ­Edinburgh and two more in ­undisclosed areas of Scotland.

At least one is thought to have flown in via London. Another suspected case is in Belfast.

It is also being reported that a desperate hunt is now under way for 2,000 recent arrivals in the UK from China. They all arrived in Britain within the last two weeks.

Four NHS trusts in the capital have been put on standby to receive patients, with Health Secretary Matt Hancock insisting that Britain can cope with any outbreak.

Professor Paul Cosford, medical director at PHE, told the BBC he "will not be surprised" if it comes to the UK.

He said: "I think it's highly likely that we will have cases in the UK - and of course every so often we do get new infections coming from the animal kingdom such as this one.

"These are early days yet with this virus. The vast majority of people who are infected do seem to be getting better.

"The people who have done particularly badly, and sadly died, they seem to be people who have other conditions that might make them more likely to suffer badly with this virus."

Hospitals in Wuhan are struggling to cope with the outbreak and have been running out of beds and supplies such as masks, goggles and suits.

At one overwhelmed hospital, tents have been set up in the car park to treat patients because there is no longer any room inside.

Residents are essentially trapped there because flights out of the city have been grounded, trains and buses have been cancelled, and motorway toll booths are shut.

Police officers armed with assault rifles and full-body protective suits have been seen standing guard.

Wuhan was building a 1,000-bed hospital for the infected and aim to have it ready by Monday.

Prefabricated buildings were going up around a holiday complex originally intended for workers, set in gardens by a lake on the outskirts of the city.

Television footage showed about 30 mechanical diggers clawing at brown earth preparing the site.

Wuhan hospitals called for donations of protective equipment such as masks and suits, as supplies ran low.

The country is taking extreme steps to stop the virus spreading, including closing the most popular part of the Great Wall of China.

The Badaling section of the wall, about 50 miles north-west of Beijing, draws thousands of tourists every day.

Currently, 13 cities are locked down affecting more than 41million residents.

There are fears the virus could spread rapidly during the ten-day Lunar New Year holiday, which will see hundreds of millions of Chinese residents travel domestically and abroad.

Chinese authorities have advised people to avoid crowds, and residents of Wuhan - where the outbreak started late last month - have been told not to leave the city of 11million.

McDonald's has shut restaurants in five cities in Hubei province, which includes Wuhan.

Anyone who has visited Wuhan in the past two weeks is being advised to phone the NHS non-emergency number 111.

Public Health England has listed the symptoms as a cough, sneezing, shortness of breath and a fever.