26 Deaths After Coronavirus Outbreak, Kailash Vijayvargiya Poha Comment Draws Flak + Other News 
 China Shuts Transport, Temples, Part Of Great Wall As Virus Toll Hits 26

Cases of the new coronavirus are likely to continue to rise in China and it is too soon to evaluate its severity, a spokesman for the World Health Organisation (WHO) said. "The focus is not so much on the (case) numbers, which we know will go up," WHO spokesman Tarik Jasarevic told a Geneva news briefing, adding that Chinese health authorities had officially reported 830 confirmed cases and 25 deaths. "It's still too early to draw conclusions on how severe the virus is." Read more.
BJP Leader Kailash Vijayvargiya Slammed For 'Poha' Remark On Bangladeshis

In a bizarre statement while speaking at a seminar in Indore, BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya claimed labourers who recently carried out construction work at his house could be Bangladeshis as they had "strange" eating habits. And what's that? Eating only 'poha' (flattened rice). "When a new room was being added at my house recently, I found eating habits of some of the workers 'strange' as they were eating only 'poha' (flattened rice)", he said. Read more.
India Will Soon Get A War Memorial Dedicated Exclusively To Service Animals In Meerut

Every year many Indian soldiers get martyred and in their memory, there are war memorials in our country remembering their sacrifices. If things fall into place, India will soon get an excluive war memorial for its animals including dogs, horses, and mules. In a report published on news agency ANI, the Indian Army's training command is mulling over a proposal to build a war memorial for its animals. "The proposal had been initiated almost two years ago for setting up the war memorial in Meerut for the animals and is now in the training command," Army sources said. Read more.
HC Grants Two Days Parole To Rape Accused To Take Oath As MP

 The Allahabad High Court granted parole for two days to Atul Rai, who won last year's Lok Sabha election from Ghosi parliamentary constituency in Mau, Uttar Pradesh, for taking oath as Member of Parliament in New Delhi. Rai is in jail in connection with a rape case and has not yet been able to take oath as an MP because his bail plea was earlier denied by the high court. Read more.
Relief For JNU Students As High Court Allows Them To Register For Next Semester According To Old Hostel Manual, No Late Fees

The Delhi High Court granted relief to the students of the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) allowing them to register in the next semester as per the old hostel manual within one week. "So far as the remaining students are concerned, they need to register within one week as per the old manual. No late fees will be charged from them too," says Justice Rajiv Shakdar. Read more.
'Doomsday Clock' Closer To Midnight Than Ever

The Doomsday Clock ticked down to 100 seconds to midnight, symbolizing the greatest level of peril to humanity since its creation in 1947 as the threat posed by climate change and a growing nuclear race loomed large. The danger level was compounded by information warfare and disruptive technologies ranging from deepfake video and audio to the militarization of space and the development of hypersonic weapons. Read more.