As coronavirus scares spread in US, China scrambles to contain outbreak that's killed 26 
 Chinese officials scrambled Friday to contain the deadly coronavirus as the death toll rises and infections spread around the world, including several scares in the United States.

In China, at least 26 people have died, hundreds have been sickened and tens of millions are under lockdown as the virus sweeps across the country.

Roughly 36 million people in 13 cities in central China, including Wuhan, at the epicenter of the outbreak first detected last month, were under lock down as public transportation halted. Other major cities across the country canceled events tied to the Lunar New Year celebration.

Beijing's Forbidden City, Shanghai Disneyland and other tourists spots have all closed. Reuters and CNN reported that part of the Great Wall near Beijing will close starting Saturday.

Coronavirus update:US State Department issues 'Do not travel' advisory for Wuhan, China

Authorities in Wuhan said Friday they were constructing a hospital like one built in Beijing during a SARS outbreak, a similar respiratory virus. The 2003 outbreak left about 800 people dead after spreading from China to more than a dozen countries. The coronavirus hospital is planned for a 270,000-square-foot lot and will be completed early February.

The World Health Organization on Thursday declined to categorize the outbreak as a global health emergency, saying there is no evidence of human-to-human infection outside China.

China's National Health Commission said the number of cases has risen to 830 as of Friday. Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to pneumonia.

While most cases have centered in China, an increasing number of cases have been confirmed in other places, including South Korea, Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.

In the United States, at least one case has been confirmed in Washington after a man in his 30s returned from Wuhan last week and became ill.

Other scares have popped up around the U.S., too. A student from Tennessee Tech University was being tested for possible infection after he presented very mild symptoms possibly related to the virus, the university and state health officials said Thursday.

A Texas A&M University student was also being tested and is isolated at home, local health officials said. The man, who recently traveled from Wuhan, is improving, said Dr. Eric Wilke of the Brazos County Health Authority.

The State Department issued a warning Thursday not to travel to Hubei province amid the outbreak and said all non-emergency U.S. personnel and their family members were to leave the province.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to pneumonia. Common signs of infection include fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties. In more severe cases, infection can cause severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and death.

Health officials said the virus, which probably spreads through tiny droplets when a person coughs or sneezes, is low-risk. Officials urged people to take the usual cold and flu season precaution: frequent hand washing, covering your mouth when coughing or sneezing and staying home when you don't feel well.

"These illnesses can pop up anywhere," said Trish Perl, chief of infectious diseases at UT Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas. "This is a dynamic situation that can dramatically change from day to day."

Tips:How to stay healthy on a plane as coronavirus, flu, colds raise travel concerns

Coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they are transmitted between animals and people. Many of the initial cases were linked to a seafood and meat market in Wuhan. Chinese health officials, which first reported the cases last month, said human-to-human transmission has been confirmed.

Contributing: John Bacon, Ken Alltucker and Lindsay Schnell, USA TODAY; Mariah Timms, Nashville Tennessean; Amanda O’Donnell and Katie Hall, Austin American-Statesman; The Associated Press.