US State Department issues 'Do not travel' advisory for Wuhan, China, amid coronavirus outbreak 
 On Thursday, the U.S. State Department issued its most severe travel advisory – Level 4: Do Not Travel – for the central Chinese province of Hubei, home to Wuhan, the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak.

Although the country as a whole maintains its Level 2 advisory (Exercise Increased Caution),  the State Department issued a special warning for the Wuhan region and noted that it had evacuated all non-essential personnel from China, limiting its ability to aid U.S. citizens in Hubei province.

"There is an ongoing outbreak of pneumonia first identified in Wuhan, China, caused by a novel (new) coronavirus.  In an effort to contain the novel coronavirus, the Chinese authorities have suspended air and rail travel in the area around Wuhan," the advisory reads.

The latest: As coronavirus scares spread in US, China scrambles to contain outbreak that's killed 26

The advisory continued, "Chinese authorities have imposed strict travel restrictions in the area around Wuhan. Travelers should be aware that the Chinese government could prevent them from entering or exiting parts of Hubei province. Travelers should be prepared for travel restrictions to be put into effect with little or no advance notice."

Wuhan is located about 715 miles (1,152 kilometers) south of Beijing. Getting there involves a nearly 5-hour flight or bullet-train ride.

Chinese officials have shut down train, subway, bus and ferry service in Wuhan as well as the neighboring cities of Huanggang and Ezhou. The measures have effectively quarantined 20 million people.

The State Department advisory also warned any American who has been to Wuhan in the last two weeks and has displayed symptoms such as fever, cough or respiratory problems to call ahead to their doctor or local emergency room to apprise them of their situation and then seek medical attention immediately.

How the airline industry is reacting: LAX passenger from Mexico City receives medical treatment amid coronavirus fears