Coronavirus outbreak: 5 under observation, over 20,000 screened as India gears up to combat global challenge 
 As many as 20,844 passengers from 96 flights have been screened for novel coronavirus symptoms in India as of January 24, a statement from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said.

The health ministry said 4,082 passengers were screened in 19 flights on Friday.



The statement also said that no case of novel coronavirus (nCoV) has been detected in the country so far. Three persons, however, have been put under observation, it added.

A travel advisory has been extended to 12 more airports in addition to the current seven, the health ministry said.

Suspected cases: 3 under observation in Mumbai, 2 in Kerala

Three residents of Mumbai have been admitted to the Kasturba Hospital in Chinchpokli for possible exposure to novel coronavirus infection.

Two patients went to China on January 16 and returned on January 22 while the third came back from Hong Kong on January 9. All of them complained of cough, cold, fever and difficulty in breathing on their return and were thereby put under observation.

Speaking to India Today TV, Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakane said, "The blood samples of all three have been sent to National Institute of Virology in Pune and we are expecting the results by tomorrow. After that, we will be able to assertion whether they are indeed gripped with the virus or not."

Meanwhile, Kerala Health Minister KK Shailaja said two people are under observation in the state- one in Kochi and the other in Thiruvananthapuram.

However, she said the two are being kept under watch as a precautionary measure and haven't shown severe symptoms.

Special wards set up at Delhi AIIMS and Mumbai's Kasturba Hospital

A special centre has been established inside Kasturba Hospital in Mumbai for screening patients at initial stages.

"There are four dedicated wards and 16 rooms and for each room there will be a doctor, nurse and a paramedic appointed. For the medical staff all necessary equipment like masks, aprons, gloves and other protective gear have been provided so that they are protected while treating the patients," Suresh Kakane told India Today.

In Delhi, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has set up an isolation ward and kept beds ready for providing treatment to any suspected case of novel coronavirus infection.

AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said, "We have an isolation ward and we have beds kept ready for providing care and treatment for suspected coronavirus cases in Delhi or elsewhere in India."

Death toll rises to 25, over 800 affected in China

The novel coronavirus that has so far killed 25 people and affected 830 in China is a novel strain and not seen before.

It emerged from a seafood and animal market in China's Wuhan, and is suspected to have spread to as far as the United States.