Top stories of the day: Two under coronavirus watch in Mumbai, Supreme Court stays NCLAT order in Tata Sons-Cyrus Mistry case, and more 
 As many as 1,789 passengers underwent thermal screening at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai for the contagion since January 19 and two of them, who had travelled to China, were admitted to the civic-run Kasturba Hospital in the city as a precaution, officials said.

"To address the insufficiency of existing medical resources,” Wuhan authorities said in a Friday notice, the city is constructing a hospital modeled after the Xiaotangshan SARS hospital in Beijing. The facility will be a prefabricated structure on a 25,000-square-meter (270,000-square-foot) lot, slated for completion February 3. Lockdown has been expanded to at least 10 cities with a total of about 33 million people.

Six people have been killed and several were injured in a shooting in the southwestern German town of Rot am See, police said. A suspect has been arrested and no further suspects are believed to be at large, police said.

The Supreme Court on Friday stayed an order of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) rejecting a plea by the Registrar of Companies, Mumbai, to delete certain adverse comments made against it for “converting” Tata Sons Private Limited (TSPL) into a 'private company'.

Mr. Vijayvargiya has attracted a torrent of criticism on social media, particularly in West Bengal, after his comments about the eating habits of labourers. Yesterday, Mr. Vijayvargiya said that he had suspected that there were some Bangladeshis among the construction labourers who had been working at his house after he had found them eating poha (flattened rice that is called chire in Bengal).

The court directs the university not to charge any late fee.

National Security Act was imposed from January 19 to April 18 in the National Capital.

Krishna Thaba, who was working as a security guard at the estate at the time of the crime, left for his native village in Nepal and since then, has gone elsewhere for a job, police believe.

Authorities say the decision of the Muslim family has nothing to do with CAA; Muslim family says water supply was discontinued due to technical issues.

Growth slowdown in India temporary, expect momentum to improve going ahead, says IMF chief; India-U.S. agree to resolve amicably dispute over steel import duty; Sensex ends 227 points higher; Nifty reclaims 12,200.

High Court said that fresh elections should be held within three months. It also appointed Justice B. Gokuldas as election officer.

Credit should be given to Indian bowlers for restricting Kiwis towards the end.