Dow rises 100 points, led by American Express and Intel 
 Stocks rose on Friday to end a choppy week of trading after the release of better-than-expected earnings from American Express and Intel while worries over the deadly coronavirus eased.

American Express reported a quarterly profit and revenue that beat analyst expectations. Those results were driven in part by strong card fee revenues. The stock gained more than 2% in the premarket.

Intel, meanwhile, climbed more than 5% after its fourth-quarter numbers topped estimates. The company also gave an optimistic outlook for the first quarter of 2020.

Those results add to what has been a solid start to the earnings season. More than 16% of the S&P 500 has released quarterly results thus far. Of those companies, about 70% have reported better-than-expected earnings, FactSet data shows.

Nick Raich, CEO of The Earnings Scout, pointed out that S&P 500 earnings expectations are also improving, which is “a reason why stocks continue to rise. The rise in price has been more than the underlying improvement in overall EPS expectations. This is what has made stock prices expensive in our opinion.”

Stocks have been on a record-setting tear since last year, with the S&P 500 rising more than 28% in 2019 and gaining more than 2% to start off 2020.

However, stocks have been subdued this week by fears of the China coronavirus spreading, with the death toll rising to 26 and the number of confirmed cases increasing to 830. The S&P 500 and Dow entered Friday’s session on pace for their first weekly loss of the year while the Nasdaq Composite was barely higher week to date.

The virus originated in China, but cases have also been reported in the U.S., Japan, and South Korea. The World Health Organization on Thursday called the outbreak an “emergency in China,” but stopped short of saying it constituted a global public health emergency. This led to a sigh of relief for investors, who were worried the situation had escalated to a global health emergency.

Meanwhile in economic data, manufacturing figures for January are due at 9:45 a.m. ET.