Wackiest foods sampled by Daily Star writers as bat soup linked to coronavirus 
 The killer coronavirus sparking pandemonium in China is being linked to the national delicacy, bat soup.

Having originated in a seafood market in Wuhan, the deadly virus has so far killed 26 people and infected more than 800. Scientists say it could have been transmitted from bats to humans through soup.

It might not sound like something you'd order as a starter, but a broth made using the flying mammals' wings is far from the strangest thing sampled by Daily Star writers on their travels.

Here, they describe their weirdest - and most disgusting - culinary experiences. From sheep's lung to raw horse, they're not for the faint hearted.

I went to a restaurant in Nanjing, China, when the Chinese people I was eating with recommended I try a local delicacy.

But I was more than a little shocked when some sheep lung was brought out.

It tasted far better than you'd expect but was suspiciously spongey.

I have eaten a traditional Norwegian meal called Smalahove, which is basically a smoked and boiled sheep’s head cut in half. 



 It was quite fatty and strange, but the toughest thing to eat was the eyes – and being face-to-face with a skull at the end.

I ate a rat in Nepal on Christmas Day 2011. It was tough, rubbery, and burnt bitter. The other option was crab which I figured I could have back in the UK. Alas I became a vegetarian months later. I washed the critter down with cheap rum we were drinking neat by a fireside. It was barbecued on a skewer - the dim light was a blessing. Very gap year.

I once ate Amazonian tree ant in celebrity chef Alex Atala's D.O.M restaurant in Sao Paulo, Brazil.

He spends his life sourcing new food from the rainforest and highly recommended his ants which were served as dessert on top of a chunk of pineapple. They tasted just like lemongrass. I asked for another portion!

No side effects...but I can now lift 50 times my own bodyweight!

I had a plate of horse sashimi on a trip to Japan – that's raw, uncooked horse.

Known locally as 'basashi', the cuts of fatty, marbled horse meat are served on a bed of soy sauce, garlic and wasabi... even though the taste of the meat isn't really the problem.

The most disconcerting thing about the dish is the weirdly soft, almost melty texture of the meat – it just feels swallowing some particularly watery beef.

While covering I'm A Celebrity in Australia for the Daily Star, I got to sample a few Bushtucker Trial buffet dishes including crocodile c*ck (rather chewy and lots of gristle and not much taste), crocodile foot (very yummy and like chicken), live crickets (crunchy but tasteless), live cockroaches (vile - not recommended), live green ants (not bad - lemon taste) and my faves were live mealworms (really nice like peanut butter - recommended).

Plus while on holiday in Japan once I was given sea urchin slime - not recommended. Tasted like someone's phlegm.

Shrimp and alligator sausage cheesecake in New Orleans, US

When my friends in New Orleans suggested I try shrimp and alligator sausage cheesecake at local foody favourite Jacques-Imos I thought they'd snapped.

I was pretty reluctant to try it but it was nothing like I expected. It's more of a quiche than a cheesecake in texture.

And even though alligator sounds weird it actually does taste of chicken - maybe a little firmer - it was surprisingly delicious.

In a Catalan restaurant I spotted a rice dish. It had one weird word I couldn’t make head nor tail of. I asked the waitress what it was and she said, somewhat impatiently: “Marisco.”

“Mmmm, marisco, nice!’ my wife said so – eager to get things rolling – I said I’d have that.

Anyway some time later whatever-it-was turned up. A bed of rice with a large white, what looked like a drowned man’s hand on top of it.

It was rank. It was gristly and rubbery and tasted of fishy nothing. I ate it though. I was starving by that point.

We paid up our millions of Euros and trotted off back to the hotel. She went back to bed and I looked up "marisco". IIt just means seafood. Eighteen years later I still have absolutely no idea what I ate that night.

I've eaten Scorpion in Thailand which tasted a lot like liquorice, crocodile in Australia which was a bit like pork, but tasted like chicken... and in Iceland I ate puffin, which tasted like pigeon.