Netflix fans convinced Coronavirus outbreak is PR stunt for Pandemic docuseries 
 Netflix users on social media are theorising that the current Coronavirus outbreak is a PR stunt for the release of a new documentary show.

Conspiracy theorists have been working overtime as they browse Netflix's latest content and see new series Pandemic: How To Prevent An Outbreak, which was released on Tuesday.

The platform states: "In this docuseries, we meet the heroes on the front lines of the battle against influenza and learn about their efforts to stop the next global outbreak."

The series synopsis for Pandemic adds: "After all, it's been over 100 years since the last pandemic, so we're due. But can we beat the clock and prevent widespread damage from one?"

The timing of the series' release does feel eerie considering the current chaos in China as the new strand of Coronavirus has left much of the nation in lockdown.

Viewers on social media, however, have their tin foil hats on convinced there is more behind it.

One user wrote on Twitter: "Netflix just dropped a doc called Pandemic right after the coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan, China. I’m feeling suspicious lol. #conspiracytheories:

Another wrote: "I find the timing of this and the release of Pandemic series on Netflix very odd. Coincidence?"

Meanwhile, another noted: "They’ve probably just brought forward the release date."

"Perfect time for the pandemic series on Netflix to release," wrote another.

While another noted: "Netflix came out with a new series called Pandemic just in time to help fuel the panic."

However, a different viewer thought the current context made Pandemic necessary viewing: "Netflix just released a documentary called PANDEMIC. You all need to watch it. Especially in light of this new CoronaVirus"

Either way, the six-part series is likely to be a major conversation starter.

Pandemic: How To Prevent An Outbreak is available now on Netflix.

What do you think of the series if you've seen it? Let us know in the comments below.