Coronavirus Live Updates: Nine People Tested in Northern California 
 A security officer wears a hazardous materials suit at a subway station in Beijing, China amid the Wuhan coronavirus outbreak on Jan. 24, 2020. (Yunan Wang/AP Photo)

The new coronavirus, known as the 2019 Novel Coronavirus or the Wuhan coronavirus, has infected over 800 people in China and spread to at least six other countries since breaking out in December 2019.

Coronaviruses are a family of viruses that include the common cold and severe illnesses such as SARS.

At least nine people are being tested for the 2019 Novel Coronavirus in a northern California county, health officials said.

Officials with the Alameda County Health Department told KRON4 that there are no confirmed cases out of the nine-plus people showing symptoms.

The patients either traveled to Wuhan, China, within the past 14 days or were in contact with someone else who was exposed to the virus.

Health officials said the patients had a high fever and a cough and that samples were sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for testing.

Taiwan health officials on the evening of Jan. 24 confirmed two new cases of the virus, bringing the total to three on the island.

A Chinese tourist, a woman in her 50s, and a Taiwanese man, also in his 50s, have been quarantined in hospital. Both had entered Taiwan on Jan. 21 and had been in Wuhan, officials said.

The Chinese woman went to a hospital with fever symptoms on Jan. 23.

The man started experiencing cold symptoms on Jan. 20 and went to a hospital on Jan. 23.

Chinese authorities have expanded lockdowns and closed tourist attractions ahead of the Lunar New Year to curb a viral outbreak that has spread to nearly all regions of the country. The number of confirmed cases of the new coronavirus has surpassed 880 in China, with 26 confirmed deaths.

The disease, which originated from the central city of Wuhan, has spread to every region in the country except Tibet.

Authorities have put 13 cities in the province of Hubei, where Wuhan is located, under transport lockdown—affecting around 40 million people. Outside the epicenter, there were major closures of events to celebrate the upcoming Lunar New Year and tourist attractions, including Beijing’s Forbidden City, some sections of the Great Wall, and Shanghai Disneyland.