Chinese students in coronavirus-hit UK campus are drinking VINEGAR because they think it cures deadly disease 
 TERRIFIED Chinese students in a coronavirus-hit university campus are drinking VINEGAR because they think it cures the deadly disease.

Groups of panicked graduates at the University of Edinburgh are downing the condiment and mass buying surgical masks to protect themselves.

Engineering student Yuki, 24, told SunOnline: “Some of my friends drink vinegar because they heard this method was effective.

"I dont know why, maybe a rumour, in this panicked situation people can very easily use these useless methods.”

He added: “In my residence there are so many Chinese students - about 80 per cent.

"I am a little bit anxious. For example today there will be a party in my flat for Chinese New Year, but I’ll try to avoid contact.

"I think so many Chinese people will go back to China there will be a risk."

Asian students are on red alert about the deadly virus that has claimed the lives of 25 in China with confirmed cases skyrocketing to over 800 in the country.

In Britain, 14 people have been hospitalised over the illness, with fears that thousands more people could be at risk.

So far reports have suggested five people are being tested for the killer illness in Edinburgh and Glasgow hospitals as a "precaution", while a man is being assessed in isolation in Belfast and another in Hillingdon.

Public Health England have not disclosed where the remaining seven people are being tested.

A university pharmacy run out of masks after selling more than a year's worth of stock in just one day.

One 25-year-old post graduate student told Sun Online: "I am waiting to get a mask from our school. You can buy them.

"All the research says if you put on tour mask it will probably reduce the risk.

He added: "If I was in China I would probably worry about this situation because the number of patients they publish is not true.

"I believe the number of patients is much larger. I think the government is probably lying."

A pharmacist at the Bristo Square pharmacy said they had sold hundreds of face masks to Chinese students - with fresh stock having to be shipped from Ireland.

She said: "All our suppliers are out of stock.

"One yesterday said they had years worth of supply now they had none. They are shipping face masks from Ireland for us.

"Yesterday we sold well over 1,000. They bought them in boxes.

"The real boom was yesterday. Definitely more than a year's worth in just one day.

"We have no face masks in here. We dont get any more til Monday.

Sales of hand gel and thermometers have also rocketed.

Another worker at the pharmacist said a Chinese girl who came in with symptoms was put in quarantine by doctors upstairs.

She said: "We had one Chinese girl that was getting tested.

"She went to the doctor upstairs and they had her isolated.

"She said she wasn’t feeling well."



An email from the University of Edinburgh, seen by Sun Online, told students feeling unwell after recently travelling to Wuhan province or elsewhere in China to contact their GP.

Whilea notice posted on the university health centre and pharmacy, next to a Chinese flag, warned people not to enter the building if they had travelled to Wuhan City in the past 14 days and have a fever, sore throat, shortness of breath or a cough".

One Chinese post-graduate student at Heriot-Watt University said she started taking extra precautions three or four days ago after news of the suspected outbreak broke.

She said: "Most of my friends have masks.

"I do not have one on me, but it is on the way. I have ordered it from Amazon.

"I open my window all the time for ventilation. I wash my hands more frequently than before.

"All of my classmates are worried and they really care about this

"This is the first thing we talk about every day."

An 18-year-old biology student said fellow Chinese students were even warning pals to stay away from university to avoid the risk of infection.

She said: "It's quite dangerous. We need to protect ourselves with masks.

"I have got several masks.

"People are saying they feel very insecure in their conditions.

"People are saying do not go to lectures, only go to school when necessary - if you have a practical or a workshop, but most of the time just stay at home."

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.