The Eternals’ Kumail Nanjiani claims it’s the ‘most epic’ Marvel movie 
 The Eternals’ Kumail Nanjiani has praised the upcoming film, claiming it’s the ‘most epic’ Marvel movie fans have seen so far.

Ermmmm, has he seen Avengers: Endgame?!

The 41-year-old is playing cosmic-powered Kingo in the flick, which has been helmed by Chloe Zhao.

And he has been making sure our expectations are sky-high, revealing what sets the Eternals apart from the other shed-load of Marvel offerings we’ve had thrown at us over the last few years.

‘It’s really, really an epic. And it’s really such a science-fiction story,’ he said. ‘It’s a superhero story, but in some ways, it’s the most sci-fi of all the Marvel movies and it’s the most epic of all the Marvel movies.

‘And the story spans thousands of years. So it’s really not like any of the other Marvel movies.’

Kumail has been joined on set by some incredible names, shooting scenes with Gemma Chan, Angelina Jolie, Richard Madden, Lauren Ridloff and Salma Hayek, to name just a few.

And he also took a second to praise how diverse the cast is, adding that it doesn’t resemble any of the superhero films that came before it.

‘It doesn’t look like any of the other Marvel movies. I was on set shooting, and the director showed me just a still of all of us together in the scene,’ he continued to Entertainment Weekly.

‘And I was like, “I mean, look at all of us together.” We all look so different. It’s me and a huge buff guy from Korea [Ma Dong-seok] and Salma Hayek and Angelina Jolie and Gemma Chan and Lauren Ridloff.

‘You don’t ever get to see people like this together in the same room, let alone in awesome superhero costumes.’

The Marvel gang are currently filming scenes in London, with Gemma Chan and Kit Harington spotted sharing a passionate kiss on set.

While Richard Madden enjoyed a Game Of Thrones reunion with the Jon Snow actor soon after.

And a public filming notification obtained and shared on Twitter has teased an odd code name for the flick.

According to the notification, shared by a fan account, ‘Sack Lunch’ is the title ‘of a family friendly film scheduled for release in late 2020.

‘Our story follows a group of immortal beings as they strive to protect humanity.’

Well, seeing as the film is about a group of superheroes who are probably keen on protecting humanity, and will be with us in November, we’re guessing this is on the money…

The Eternals is due out on 6 November 2020 in the US.

MORE: Netflix viewers freaked out as Pandemic documentary happens to drop amid coronavirus outbreak

MORE: Vanessa Hudgens shows off new sideboob tattoo for ‘Thirsty Thursday’ after split from Austin Butler