Coronavirus mystery: Baffled scientist admits ‘there are many missing pieces to puzzle' 
 The World Health Organization decided against declaring the outbreak of the disease – which is officially known as 2019-nCoV, and which is believed to have originated in a seafood market in the Chinese city of Wuhan – a Public Health Emergency of International Concern, although director-general Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus admitted the situation could change. Commenting on the decision, Peter Piot, Professor of Global Health and Director of the London School of Hygiene  Tropical Medicine, said: “We are at a critical phase in this outbreak.

“Regardless of the decision not to declare this a Public Health Emergency of International Concern, intensified international collaboration and more resources will be crucial to stopping this outbreak in its tracks.
“National authorities and the World Health Organization will need to continue to monitor developments very closely.
“There are still many missing pieces in the jigsaw puzzle to fully understanding this new virus which is spreading rapidly across China, and most probably around the world.

“Over the coming days and weeks we will know much more, but there cannot be any complacency as to the need for global action.”
Stressing the need for international cooperation, Prof Piot added: “The good news is that the data to date suggest that this virus may have a lower mortality than SARS, we have a diagnostic test and there is greater transparency than decades gone by.
“And that is essential because you cannot deal with a potential pandemic in one country alone.”

Speaking at the WHO’s Geneva headquarters yesterday, Dr Ghebreyesus said: “We know that this virus can cause severe disease, and that it can kill, although for most people it causes milder symptoms.
“We know that among those infected, one quarter of patients have experienced severe disease.
“We know that most of those who have died had underlying health conditions such as hypertension, diabetes or cardiovascular disease that weakened their immune systems.
“We know that there is human-to-human transmission in China, but for now it appears limited to family groups and health workers caring for infected patients.

“At this time, there is no evidence of human-to-human transmission outside China, but that doesn’t mean it won’t happen.”
In comments which echoed those of Prof Piot, he said: “There is still a lot we don’t know.
“We don’t know the source of this virus, we don’t understand how easily it spreads, and we don’t fully understand its clinical features or severity.

The Baltimore-based Johns Hopkins Center for Systems Science and Engineering has developed an online dashboard for tracking the spread of the coronavirus, and as of 12.45pm today, a total of 881 cases have been reported worldwide, with 26 deaths.
The vast majority of the cases – 868 – and all of the deaths have occurred in mainland China, with the other isolated cases in Thailand, Hong Kong, Japan, Macau, Vietnam, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan, plus one in the United States.
No cases have yet been confirmed in the UK – but the Government’s Cobra emergency committee is meeting today to consider the threat to the UK, with nine people waiting to see if they have contracted the illness, with a further five having been given the all-clear.

Health Secretary Matt Hancock is chairing the meeting.
Professor Paul Cosford, emeritus medical director at Public Health England, has said it is still “early days” in the course of the virus, but also emphasised most affected so far were making a good recovery.
However, Prof Gosford said it is “highly likely” that cases would be seen in the UK.
The Scottish Government yesterday confirmed five people were being tested after presenting with symptoms of the illness, with another tested at Belfast’s Royal Victoria Hospital.