Stocks turn lower on news of second US coronavirus case 
 Stocks gave back gains from earlier in the day Friday after the second U.S. case of the deadly coronavirus was confirmed.

The Dow was down 75 points after jumping more than 100 points earlier in the day. The S&P 500 slid 0.5% after rising 0.2%, while the Nasdaq fell 0.3%.

On Friday, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said a Chicago resident who traveled to Wuhan — the Chinese city where the coronavirus originated — in December was diagnosed with the sickness.

Shares of United Airlines and American both fell more than 3%. Las Vegas Sands and Wynn Resorts also dropped more than 2% each. Treasury yields fell, pushing back shares lower. The benchmark 10-year yield traded below 1.7%. JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Bank of America all traded more than 1% lower.

Fears over the possible economic impact of the coronavirus subdued stocks this week. The Dow and S&P 500 are both on pace for their first weekly loss of 2020. The Nasdaq was set to post a marginal gain for the week. The World Health Organization on Thursday called the outbreak an “emergency in China” but stopped short of saying it constituted a global public health emergency.

Stocks stared Friday’s session on a strong note after the release of better-than-expected earnings from American Express and Intel.

American Express reported a quarterly profit and revenue that beat analyst expectations. Those results were driven in part by strong card fee revenues. The stock gained more than 3%.

Intel climbed more than 8% after its fourth-quarter numbers topped estimates. The company also gave an optimistic outlook for the first quarter of 2020.

Those results add to what has been a solid start to the earnings season. More than 16% of the S&P 500 has released quarterly results thus far. Of those companies, about 70% have reported better-than-expected earnings, FactSet data shows.

Nick Raich, CEO of The Earnings Scout, pointed out that S&P 500 earnings expectations are also improving, which is “a reason why stocks continue to rise. The rise in price has been more than the underlying improvement in overall EPS expectations. This is what has made stock prices expensive in our opinion.”

Stocks have been on a record-setting tear since last year, with the S&P 500 rising more than 28% in 2019 and gaining more than 2% to start off 2020.

U.S. equities followed their European counterparts higher after IHS Markit data showed business activity in the region showed signs of stabilizing after weakening throughout 2019.

The Stoxx 600 index, which tracks a broad swath of European shares, advanced 1.1%. Germany’s Dax climbed 1.5% while the French CAC 40 gained 1.1%.

“Global economic activity is slowly firming, but is not likely to be sufficiently strong as to unnerve government bond markets over the next few months,” strategists at MRB Partners said in a note. “Nevertheless, the macro backdrop is sufficiently positive, and likely to remain so, to suggest that no worse than a digestion phase or mild correction will be necessary to better align equity prices with the slow-moving uptrend in earnings.”