'It's a matter of where and when': Ontario's top doctor says province is prepared for coronavirus 
 Ontario’s chief medical officer of health believes it’s just a matter of time until the coronavirus spreads to Canada, but he says the province is prepared, in large part because of our experience with SARS in 2003.

“Our preparedness is set in place,” Dr. David Williams said Friday morning during an update on coronavirus preparedness. “Through SARS and through all the work later, we have set in place standard policies and procedures.”

“We still haven’t seen a case (of coronavirus), my guess is we will,” he added. “It’s a matter of where and when.”

“I am glad to say, the machinery is in place, it’s working. (We’re) light years ahead of what we faced back in 2003 (with SARS).”

The coronavirus has killed 26 people so far and the number of confirmed cases has risen to 830, the National Health Commission said.

“There are no confirmed cases of coronavirus in Toronto,” Toronto’s Medical Officer of Health Dr. Eileen de Villa stressed. “I also advise you that the overall risk to our residents at this time is still considered low.”

“We do know that Toronto’s Pearson Airport is an international travel hub,” she added. “So I think it’s important that you know we are actively monitoring the situation in concert with our federal and provincial health partners.”

Dr. Peter Donnelly, with Public Health Ontario, said the situation is now very different from what it was during SARS. He said authorities are much better prepared than they were for SARS: Communications are more robust, hospitals have better isolation facilities if needed, and a reliable test is available to detect the coronavirus within 24 hours.

“This was a disease unknown to science only two weeks ago and we now have the full genetic fingerprint of the virus and we have a test, which is specific and reliable,” Donnelly said. “In situations like this, speed and certainty are both very important.”

In addition, he said, health officials were working with the National Microbiology Lab in Winnipeg to develop an even quicker test.

Health officials also said scary images coming from a now isolated Wuhan, a Chinese city with 11 million people, will not be repeated here.

“Absolutely not,” Donnelly said. “If a case comes here, and it is probably likely that we will have a case here, it will still be business as normal.”

The Wuhan outbreak is suspected to have begun from wild animals sold at a food market in the city.

On the eve of the Lunar New Year, transportation in China was shut down in at least 13 cities home to more than 36 million people. The cities are Wuhan, where the illness has been concentrated, and nine of its neighbours in central China’s Hubei province.

Initial symptoms can mirror those of the cold and flu, including cough, fever, chest tightening and shortness of breath, but can worsen to pneumonia.

Toronto’s medical officer of health urged people to ensure they are consulting credible information sources on the outbreak. Good places for solid information include websites of the Public Health Agency of Canada, Public Health Ontario and Toronto Public Health, Dr. Eileen de Villa said.

“I ask members of the public to rely on evidence-informed, credible sources of information when you’re looking for updates,” de Villa said.

De Villa stressed the importance of practising good hygiene to prevent transmission of viruses. Simple steps include washing hands thoroughly, covering coughs and sneezes, and staying home if you’re ill.

While the World Health Organization has decided for now against declaring the coronavirus outbreak a global emergency, Donnelly said public health authorities were still doing everything they can to ensure any cases here are dealt with effectively.

“We are not complacent, we’re working extremely hard on this but we are quietly confident that we can handle this,” Donnelly said. “It’s our job to have the back of the people…and to keep them safe.”

On Thursday, Canada’s chief medical officer said the chances of a outbreak here were low. Health officials have pointed to the fact that the common cold comes from the same family as the latest coronavirus and that the influenza virus kills thousands of Canadians every year.

With files from The Associated Press