Bill Gates ‘predicted’ Chinese coronavirus a year ago as simulation suggests 65 MILLION could die 
 BILL Gates “predicted” a super-virus pandemic breaking out in China before spreading across the world with 65million perishing in a year.
The Microsoft tycoon warned the world was at risk from super-pathogens could spread quickly across our planet — and that we should prepare for this as we would for war. 
Bill Gates warned a conference hosted by the Massachusetts Medical Society that a pandemic was likely soonGetty - Contributor
A pandemic was simulated that showed how quick a disease could spread
The pretend disease broke out in China
Speaking in 2018 at a conference hosted by the Massachusetts Medical Society, Gates said he was an optimist but there was one area the world was not “making much progress”.
He said: “And that’s pandemic preparedness.  
“In the case of biological threats, that sense of urgency is lacking,” he said. 
“The world needs to prepare for pandemics in the same serious way it prepares for war.”
During the conference the billionaire philanthropist unveiled an exhaustive study by the Institute for Disease Modelling which laid bare just how quickly a new disease could spread.
The time lapse video shows a potential outbreak in China which then rapidly spreads across the planet.
PREDICTION COME TRUE?
Now one year on, after emerging in the Chinese city of Wuhan, the world is faced with the all too real deadly coronavirus.
It has continued its relentless global march, with the number of nations affected almost doubling overnight.
Confirmed cases have skyrocketed to more than 800 in China alone, officials said.
Vietnam, Singapore, Saudi Arabia and Hong Kong all now have confirmed cases — alongside the US, China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand.

Do YOU know anyone infected by coronavirus? Call: 0207 782 4368 or Email: alex.matthews@the-sun.co.uk

But the World Health Organisation last night refused to declare a global public health emergency, saying it was “too early”.
However, officials admitted the committee was split almost 50-50.
Four major Chinese cities are in lockdown with 20million people in quarantine, with evidence of human to human transmission.
Officials have restricted travel in virus epicentre Wuhan, which is home to 11million, as well as neighbouring Huanggang, Ezhou and Lichuan.
	
		
	
	
		

							

					

											MOST READ IN NEWS

											
					
					

					
					

					
						


					
			
				
				
			
							
				
					
				
					
	
	
					
				STRUCK DOWN			
							
				Coronavirus ground zero is now a 'zombieland' with people collapsing in streets			
			
	

	
	





					
			
				
				
			
					
	
	
					
				IN COLD BLOOD			
							
				'Six dead' as gunman opens fire on building in German city			
			
	

	
	





					
			
				
				
			
					
	
	
					
				FINAL CALL			
							
				Heartbreaking last words of boy, 17, to mum before being decapitated in gang hit			
			
	

	
	





					
			
				
				
			
							
				
					
				
					
	
	
					
				BABY SHOCK			
							
				Russian boy, 10, who ‘got girl, 13, pregnant’ is 'too immature to produce sperm'			
			
	

	
	





					
			
				
				
			
					
	
	
					
				NO FLY ZONE			
							
				Parents 'abandon' kids at Chinese airport as feverish son banned from boarding			
			
	

	
	





					
			
				
				
			
					
	
	
					
				CYBER RAID			
							
				Ghislaine Maxwell’s private emails are HACKED sparking fears of royal leak			
			
	

	
	


					

					
					

				
			

		
	
	 
	
	
Preliminary research suggested the coronavirus was passed on to humans from snakes at Wuhan’s seafood market.
Michael Ryan, head of WHO’s emergencies programme, said almost three-quarters of confirmed cases were in people aged over 40, with four in ten having underlying health conditions.
Experts have warned it may prove as deadly as the Spanish flu, which claimed 50million lives.
There are fears that it could accelerate further with millions travelling Chinese New Year celebrations tomorrow.


Health warnings have been posted around the UK’s airportsSimon Jones - The Sun
There was a police presence outside the Queen Elizabeth University Hospital in Glasgow, where it is understood at least one person is being treated in isolationSWNS:South West News Service