Leading US health experts predict coronavirus could kill 65million 
 Leading US health experts predicted a coronavirus could kill tens of millions of people in a chilling warning three months before the deadly outbreak in China.

Scientists at the prestigious Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security said 65million patients from every corner of the world would die in the event of a global pandemic.

They modeled a hypothetical scenario last October which predicted it would take just 18 months to rack up the huge death toll.

So far the highly contagious disease currently ravaging China has killed 26 people and infected more than 900 - but experts predict the true number to be thousands.

Dr Eric Toner, a senior researcher at Johns Hopkins, said he wasn't shocked when news of a mysterious coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan in late December.

'I have thought for a long time that the most likely virus that might cause a new pandemic would be a coronavirus,' he told Business Insider.

'We don't yet know how contagious it is. We know that it is being spread person to person, but we don't know to what extent.

'An initial first impression is that this is significantly milder than SARS. So that's reassuring. On the other hand, it may be more transmissible than SARS, at least in the community setting.'

Coronaviruses are infections of the respiratory tract that can lead to illnesses like pneumonia or the common cold.

One was also responsible for the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in China, which affected 8,000 people and killed 774 in the early 2000s.

Dr Toner's computer simulation suggested that after six months, nearly every country in the world would have cases of coronavirus.

Within 18 months, 65 million people could die. The outbreak in Wuhan isn't considered a pandemic, but the virus has been reported in 10 different countries.

The US, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Vietnam, Singapore, Hong Kong, Macau and Nepal have all confirmed cases.

Dr Toner's simulation imagined a fictional virus called CAPS - a pandemic that originated in Brazil's pig farms in the hypothetical scenario.

The virus in Toner's simulation would be resistant to any modern vaccine. It would be deadlier than SARS, but about as easy to catch as the flu.

His computer modelled outbreak started small, with farmers coming down with fevers or pneumonia-like symptoms.

It then spread to crowded and poverty-riddled communities in South America.

Flights were grounded and travel bookings were slashed in half.  After six months, the virus had spread around the globe and a year later it had killed 65 million people.