2nd U.S. Case Of Coronavirus Hints At Virus’ Spread 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	A worker in Seoul, South Korea disinfects a train amid rising public concerns over the spread of ... [+] coronavirus.
Photo by Chung Sung-Jun/Getty ImagesTopline: The threat of the new coronavirus from China appears to be growing globally, with the second U.S. case confirmed Friday and cases confirmed in eight countries.
The second U.S. patient (a woman in her 60’s who traveled to Wuhan, the area in China believed to be where the virus started) is located in Chicago, according to the city’s local CBS affiliate.
The first U.S. patient reported with the virus is in Seattle, and it was reported Thursday that another patient was being tested for coronavirus in Texas, but that case has not been confirmed.
In addition to China and the U.S., Hong Kong, Japan, Nepal, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand and Vietnam have also confirmed cases of coronavirus (Saudi Arabia has denied earlier reports of a case there).
At least 846 people are infected so far across all of the inflicted countries, with 26 dying in China of the pneumonia-like infection.
China has locked down 14 cities in an attempt to quarantine the virus, restricting travel for 35 million people.
During an emergency meeting Thursday, the World Health Organization declined to declare coronavirus a public health emergency, saying it was “too early” to make the call.

Big number: 8,420. That’s how many people are reportedly under observation for the virus, according to the Washington Post. 
Tangent: Some health experts fear China’s outbreak is much greater. A report from Imperial College, London estimated that the number of Chinese residents infected with coronavirus is a good deal larger than the 830 cases reported as of Friday. 
Key background: Most of the 26 coronavirus deaths occurred in China’s Hebei province, where Wuhan, the virus’ originator, is located. Health officials believe exposure to animals at a seafood and meat market may be responsible. The outbreak began right before the country’s Lunar New Year celebrations, which the Post described as the world’s biggest migration event. Beijing canceled its celebrations and shut down its Forbidden City attraction in response to the virus. Shanghai’s Disneyland is also closed until further notice. In the U.S., five major airports are screening travelers for signs of the disease. Coronavirus belongs to the same group of viruses as the common cold, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS). The 2003 SARS outbreak killed nearly 800 people while infecting 8,000 more, causing widespread panic before being contained. MERS has been present in the Middle East region since 2012 and remains an ongoing threat.