The Hill's 12:30 Report: Democrats turn to obstruction charge 
 To view past editions of The Hill's 12:30 Report, click here: http://bit.ly/1M1mIfw

To receive The Hill's 12:30 Report in your inbox, please sign up here: http://bit.ly/1Tt4hqN

--> A midday take on what's happening in politics and how to have a sense of humor about it.*

The Hill's 12:30 Report: Democrats turn to obstruction charge | What to watch on trial's fourth day | GOP warns of 'drawn out' battle over Bolton | Trump complains about starting defense on Saturday: 'Death Valley' on TV | Latest impeachment ratings | Senate candy desk gets restocked | Second coronavirus case in US | Officials brief senators on outbreak | Trump to hold NH rally on eve of primary | Michigan governor to give Dem response to State of the Union | National Peanut Butter Day

Top health officials are briefing senators about the outbreak of the new coronavirus. http://bit.ly/2NVC1BW

Which agencies are briefing senators: Officials from The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), The National Institutes of Health (NIH) and The State Department. http://bit.ly/2TRN1UI

Confirmed this morning -- a second case of coronavirus in the United States:

Via The Hill's Peter Sullivan, the CDC just confirmed a second U.S. case of coronavirus in the United States. http://bit.ly/2NY2df4

Who: A woman in her 60s who had traveled to Wuhan, China, the center of the outbreak.

Any other cases?: Officials are investigating 63 cases in 22 states, but only two have been confirmed as the coronavirus.

WHAT TO KNOW ABOUT THE VIRUS:

Via CNET, "A never-before-seen virus detected in the Chinese city of Wuhan has claimed at least 26 lives and infected hundreds of Chinese citizens with a pneumonia-like illness, according to China's National Health Commission. The virus was first reported to the World Health Organization on Dec. 31 and has been under investigation since. Chinese scientists have linked the disease to a family of viruses known as coronaviruses, which include the deadly SARS and Middle East respiratory syndrome." https://cnet.co/2vcOJpg

Happy Friday! I'm Cate Martel with a quick recap of the morning and what's coming up. Send comments, story ideas and events for our radar to cmartel@thehill.com -- and follow along on Twitter @CateMartel and Facebook.

Did someone forward this to you? Want your own copy? Sign up here to receive The Hill's 12:30 Report in your inbox daily: http://bit.ly/2kjMNnn

President Trump Donald John TrumpSchiff pleads to Senate GOP: 'Right matters. And the truth matters.' Anita Hill to Iowa crowd: 'Statute of limitations' for Biden apology is 'up' Sen. Van Hollen releases documents from GAO investigation MORE is not happy about the timing:

The president tweeted this morning, "After having been treated unbelievably unfairly in the House, and then having to endure hour after hour of lies, fraud & deception by Shifty Schiff, Cryin' Chuck Schumer Charles (Chuck) Ellis SchumerSchumer urges declassification of letter from Pence aide No rush to judgment on Trump — it's been ongoing since Election Day Collins walks impeachment tightrope MORE & their crew, looks like my lawyers will be forced to start on Saturday, which is called Death Valley in T.V.." http://bit.ly/2NY6E9I

Today is the last day for Democratic opening arguments. Democrats are expected to focus on the second article of impeachment: obstruction of Congress. Full preview: http://bit.ly/2RNpBx1

Back story to the candy: "The famous candy desk on the Senate floor is getting restocked on Friday after hungry senators diminished the supply during the early days of the impeachment trial." Via The Hill's Alex Gangitano: http://bit.ly/2tEtFI9

Aw, there was cake!: A birthday cake for Sen. Tom Carper Thomas (Tom) Richard CarperTrump's latest water policy exposes sharp divides Democrats ask if US citizens were detained at border checkpoints due to Iranian national origin Democrats, greens blast Trump rollback of major environmental law MORE (D-Del.) was spotted near the Senate. (Via NBC's Alex Moe) Photo of the pre-sliced cake: http://bit.ly/2tMnDoJ

Extra security screening for reporters: "Trial is underway but reporters are waiting to go through the extra layer of security SSA put in the gallery. The police officer is stopping people to check their wrists, for smart watches?" (Via The Hill's Jordain Carney) Photo: http://bit.ly/38FrzGL

For context: Via The Hill's Joe Concha:

16M watched Michael Cohen Michael Dean CohenJuan Williams: Counting the votes to remove Trump Treasury adviser pleads guilty to making unauthorized disclosures in case involving Manafort Michael Cohen calls for early release from prison MORE testify Oversight Cmte

But, but, I have already run out of impeachment-related puns:

Via The Hill's Jordain Carney and John Kruzel, Republicans are warning their colleagues that a battle over executive privilege by calling on former national security adviser John Bolton John BoltonSenate Republicans confident they'll win fight on witnesses Hakeem Jeffries tells Senate in impeachment proceedings they should subpoena Baseball Hall of Fame after Jeter vote Susan Collins asked Justice Roberts to intervene after Nadler late-night 'cover-up' accusation MORE to testify at the impeachment trial could draw out the trial by weeks, if not months. http://bit.ly/2TVH6xJ

What could happen -- a length legal battle: "GOP senators expect Trump to make good on his suggestion that he could invoke executive privilege to avoid complying with subpoenas stemming from the trial. Legal experts are divided over exactly how the dispute would unfold, and under what timeframe, but some believe it could lead to a lengthy court battle involving largely untested legal questions."

Just sit back and hear your name:

Via The Hill's Jordain Carney, "Former Vice President Joe Biden Joe BidenSchiff pleads to Senate GOP: 'Right matters. And the truth matters.' Anita Hill to Iowa crowd: 'Statute of limitations' for Biden apology is 'up' Sen. Van Hollen releases documents from GAO investigation MORE and his son Hunter Biden aren't on trial in the Senate, but that's done little to stop them from dominating the conversation in the Capitol." http://bit.ly/37p0hUL

How so: "The GOP feud with the Bidens has loomed over President Trump's impeachment trial, from the dozens of mentions by the House impeachment managers to questions being fielded by senators amid the media frenzy. The pattern has become self-fulfilling: The more House managers mention the Bidens, the more Senate Republicans bring them up, the more Senate Democrats get asked about them as potential witnesses."

Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer has been chosen to deliver Democrats' response to President Trump's State of the Union address on Feb. 4. http://bit.ly/2vmVLYV

Oh, hello there!:

The Senate is in. The House is out. President Trump is in Washington, D.C. Vice President Pence is in Rome.

6 a.m. EST: Vice President Pence and Karen Pence Karen Sue PencePence's office quashes talk of snub from Prince Charles The Hill's Morning Report - House prosecutes Trump as 'lawless,' 'corrupt' The Hill's 12:30 Report: House managers to begin opening arguments on day two MORE met with Pope Francis. http://bit.ly/2GhWwVa

12:05 p.m. EST: President Trump arrives at the National Mall for the March for Life.

12:15 p.m. EST: President Trump speaks at the 47th annual March for Life.

3 p.m. EST: President Trump meets with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo Michael (Mike) Richard PompeoThe Hill's Morning Report - House prosecutes Trump as 'lawless,' 'corrupt' Overnight Defense: Trump downplays troops' concussion injuries in Iran attack | Dems offer case against Trump on day two of trial | UN links Saudis to hack of Bezos' phone Pompeo willing to testify in impeachment trial if 'legally required' MORE.

January 30: The Hill is hosting an event, "A More Perfect Union?" Details and how to RSVP: http://bit.ly/2NX2miT

February 10: President Trump is holding a campaign rally in Manchester, N.H., on the eve of the first-in-the-nation primary. http://bit.ly/38CDCV0

11:45 a.m. EST: Former Vice President Joe Biden campaigns in Claremont, N.H. Livestream: https://cs.pn/38HL0id

NOW FOR THE FUN STUFF...

And to get your weekend off to an entertaining start, here is a dog who requires LOTS of attention in the car: http://bit.ly/2GleiXz