14 Brits test negative for coronavirus government confirm 
 Health officials have revealed there are no active cases of coronavirus in the UK.

It comes after 14 people were tested for the dangerous virus which originated in Wuhan, China.

Of 14 suspected cases, all suspected patients were waiting for test results, tested negative.

However there are checks ongoing on other people, according to the Chief Medical Officer Professor Chris Whitty.

Prof Whitty said: "I am working closely with the other UK chief medical officers.

"We all agree that the risk to the UK public remains low, but there may well be cases in the UK at some stage.

"We have tried and tested measures in place to respond. The UK is well-prepared for these types of incidents, with excellent readiness against infectious diseases.

"We have global experts monitoring the situation around the clock and have a strong track record of managing new forms of infectious disease.

"The UK has access to some of the best infectious disease and public health experts in the world.

"A public health hub will be set up in Heathrow from today. This consists of clinicians and other public health officials, in addition to existing port health measures."

All the people tested in the UK had visited Wuhan - the Chinese city where the outbreak originated.

Four out five patients tested in Scotland were Chinese nationals.

One of those cleared in the UK was Michael Hope, 45, who spent two days in quarantine this week after returning to Newcastle from Wuhan.

At least 26 people have died as a result of the virus globally and more than 800 people have been infected in a variety of countries.

Cases have been identified in Japan, Nepal, Singapore, Australia and the US, among others.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson called an emergency COBRA meeting earlier today about the government's response to the virus should it be confirmed in Britain.

Upon emerging from the meeting, Health Secretary Matt Hancock told media the clinical advice was that the risk to the public remains low.

The UK's chief medical officer is expected to make a full statement later today.