Man, 29, charged with murdering one of Britain’s worst paedos 
 A MAN has been charged with murdering one of Britain’s most prolific paedophiles.

Paul Fitzgerald, 29, is accused of killing convicted sex offender Richard Huckle who died at Full Sutton prison in October last year.

2

 Richard Huckle was found dead in his cellCredit: Rex Features
 Paul Fitzgerald, 29,was charged with murdering Huckle
Humberside Police today confirmed Fitzgerald had been charged with murder and will face court next month.

Sick Huckle, 33, targeted up to 200 vulnerable youngsters while volunteering in orphanages in Malaysia – bragging online that it was easier than abusing kids from wealthy Western backgrounds.

He was eventually jailed in 2016 and sentenced to 22 life sentences after pleading guilty at the Old Bailey to 71 counts of child abuse against 23 children.

As he was caged, a friend of one victim yelled: “A thousand deaths is too good for you.”

The freelance photographer, from Ashford in Kent, was caught after he awarded himself "Pedopoints" for different acts of abuse against 191 youngsters, and sold images of his depravity on the dark web.

In online posts, Huckle had bragged that it was easier to target impoverished children in Malaysia.

He was arrested when he was stopped at Gatwick Airport while en route to spend Christmas with his family in 2014, after Australian authorities tipped off the UK's National Crime Agency.

SICK SINGER
 X Factor's Danny Tetley jailed for 9 years for begging kids for naked pics 

BEER WE NO
 Wetherspoon bans parents with kids from buying more than two alcoholic drinks 

SNOWING A GALE
 Snow, heavy rain and strong winds to lash UK as temperatures plummet 

STRUCK DOWN
 Coronavirus ground zero is now a 'zombieland' with people collapsing in streets 

Comment


NORMAN BAKER
 Harry  Meg's '£2m pocket money' is peanuts… we need to look at Charles' Duchy 







At the time of his arrest, he was writing a guide to teach fellow paedophiles how to abuse children and avoid detection.

Officers seized his encrypted laptop and managed to uncover more than 20,000 indecent pictures and videos although there were other files they were unable to crack.

Fitzgerald is due to appear via video link at Beverley Magistrates Court on Wednesday 5 February.

2

 Huckle was jailed in 2016 after pleading guilty at the Old Bailey to 71 counts of child abuse against 23 children and caged for 22 life sentencesCredit: Rex Features
 Richard Huckle died in HMP Full SuttonCredit: Alamy
 Huckle died in prisonCredit: PA:Press Association