Woman who 'bragged about cheating coronavirus tests' is tracked down 
 A Chinese woman who bragged about cheating airport coronavirus screenings in the outbreak's epicentre has been tracked down in France.

The woman boasted on Chinese site WeChat that she'd been suffering from a fever but took tablets to mask her symptoms so she could fly from Wuhan.

She later posted photos of herself apparently dining at a Michelin star restaurant in Lyon with family.

Her post sparked outrage online and the Chinese embassy in Paris was bombarded with phonecalls and emails, it said.

She had left the city of Wuhan, in China's Hubei province, where the killer virus was first detected in late December. It's not clear exactly when she left China.

'Just before I left, I had a low fever and cough. I was scared to death and rushed to eat [fever-reducing] medicine,' the woman tweeted, according to the BBC.

'I kept on checking my temperature. Luckily I managed to get it down and my exit was smooth.'

Officials had temperature scanners in operation at the time she was flying, refusing to allow anybody with signs of a fever from boarding the flight.

The woman said that she had used anti-fever medicine to keep her temperature down. She then documented her journey to Lyon on WeChat.

After landing, she uploaded a series of photographs of what looked like her and her family dining at the plush restaurant in Lyon. She also posted images of her meals.

'Finally I can have a good meal, I feel like I've been starving for two days. When you are in a gourmet city of course you have to eat Michelin [food],' she wrote, according to the BBC.

'Just before I left, I had a low fever and cough. I was scared to death and rushed to eat [fever-reducing] medicine. I kept on checking my temperature. Luckily I managed to get it down and my exit was smooth.'

Her post went viral and she was criticised by other social media users. The Chinese embassy in Paris said it had received calls and emails about the woman.

The embassy told French media it would remain in touch with the woman and update them on any developments.

It added that she did not require 'further examinations' at this point.

Coronavirus has spread to countries as far as South Korea, Japan and the US.  China has quarantined more than 40million people in 14 cities all within Hubei province.