Second US case of coronavirus confirmed in Chicago 
 The second case of coronavirus in the US has been confirmed in Chicago — as health officials continue to examine 63 patients in 22 states.


The latest confirmed case involves a 60-year-old woman who returned from Wuhan, China, on Jan. 13 and began experiencing symptoms including fever, coughing and shortness of breath three to four days later, health officials in Chicago told reporters Friday.

She was admitted to an unidentified hospital and placed in isolation while tests confirmed the virus. She is currently in stable condition and doing well.

“This is a single travel-associated case, not a local health emergency,” Dr. Allison Arwady, the commissioner of the Chicago Department of Public Health, said at a press conference.

Arwady insisted that the risk of infection for others was “low nationally and locally.”

“To our best knowledge, she has not had extended close contact with anyone outside her home since returning from China and prior to her admission into the health care system,” Arwady said.

She wouldn’t say what airline the woman flew on.

“Again, this patient was not symptomatic when she was traveling, which lowers the risk,” Arwady added.

Earlier in the day, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed it’s examining 63 patients in 22 states for possible coronavirus infection. So far, 11 have tested negative.

The mysterious illness has been linked to a shady seafood market in Wuhan. The virus has killed at least 26 people and infected more than 800 worldwide.

The first case of coronavirus in the US was confirmed earlier this week in Washington state.



	




	
	
										
			
				
				
					
				
													
						
							Disinfection workers wearing protective gear spray antiseptic solution in a train terminal.															
Getty Images

													

					

							

											
			
				
				
					
				
													
						
							A medical staff member checks a man's temperature amid the coronavirus outbreak.															
EPA