Europe's first coronavirus confirmed after patients tested in France 
 Two people have been diagnosed with coronavirus in France, making them Europe's first confirmed cases.

The two cases - one in Paris, one in Bordeaux - were confirmed by French health minister Agnes Buzyn.

She said that both of the patients had travelled to China, where the deadly illness originated.

The minister said she expects more cases.

"We have two cases," she said. "We will probably have other cases."

The city of Wuhan, home to 11 million people, has been put on lockdown, with transport in and out suspended due to fears of the SARS-like virus spreading.

People in the UK face ongoing tests for coronavirus as the Chief Medical Officer for England said there is a "fair chance" Britain will see cases emerge.

Fourteen people were given the all-clear on Thursday but others are undergoing tests formulated by Public Health England (PHE), Professor Chris Whitty said.

It comes as the Department of Health confirmed that officials are trying to trace 2,000 people who have flown to the UK from Wuhan, China in the past few weeks, in order to check on their wellbeing.

Prof Whitty spoke following a meeting of the Government's Cobra emergency committee in Whitehall, chaired by Health Secretary Matt Hancock.

He said: "I am working closely with the other UK chief medical officers.

"We all agree that the risk to the UK public remains low, but there may well be cases in the UK at some stage.

"We have tried-and-tested measures in place to respond. The UK is well prepared for these types of incidents, with excellent readiness against infectious diseases.

"We have global experts monitoring the situation around the clock and have a strong track record of managing new forms of infectious disease.

"The UK has access to some of the best infectious disease and public health experts in the world.

"A public health hub will be set up in Heathrow from today. This consists of clinicians and other public health officials, in addition to existing port health measures."

In an interview, Prof Whitty said: "We think there's a fair chance we may get some cases over time.

"Of course this depends on whether this continues for a long time, or whether this turns out to be something which is brought under control relatively quickly."

He added: "I think we should definitely see this as a marathon, not a sprint, we need to have our entire response based on that principle.

"At the minute it definitely looks like this is a lot less dangerous if you get it than Ebola, and a lot less dangerous than the recent coronavirus MERS, and it's probably less dangerous if you get it than SARS virus.

"What we don't know is how far it's going to spread, that really is something we need to plan for all eventualities."

We'll be bringing you the very latest updates, pictures and video on this breaking news story.