Dow drops 300 points after a second US coronavirus case is confirmed, airline shares decline 
 Stocks fell on Friday after the second U.S. case of the deadly coronavirus was confirmed, stoking concerns over the sickness' impact on the global economy.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average traded down 305 points, or 1.1% after jumping more than 100 points earlier in the day. The 30-stock average was also on pace for its biggest one-day loss since October.  The S&P 500 fell 1.3% after rising 0.2%. The Nasdaq Composite was about 1.4% lower.

On Friday, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said a Chicago resident who traveled to Wuhan — the Chinese city where the coronavirus originated — in December was diagnosed with the sickness.

U.S. Senator John Barrasso later said the CDC told lawmakers they are about to confirm a third case of the Wuhan virus in the U.S. "It looks like have two documented cases in the US, it looks like third may be confirmed as well."

Shares of United Airlines and American both fell more than 5%. Las Vegas Sands and Wynn Resorts also dropped more than 3% each.

Treasury yields fell, pushing bank shares lower. The benchmark 10-year yield dipped below 1.7%. JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Bank of America all traded more than 2% lower.

The Cboe Volatility Index (VIX), considered to be the best fear gauge in the market, broke above 15 for the first time since early January.

Fears over the possible economic impact of the coronavirus subdued stocks this week. The Dow and S&P 500 are both on pace for their first weekly loss of 2020 along with the Nasdaq. The World Health Organization on Thursday called the outbreak an "emergency in China," but stopped short of saying it constituted a global public health emergency.

Boeing shares also contributed to Friday's decline, falling 1.4% after CNBC confirmed the company was considering further cuts to its 787 Dreamliner production.

Stocks started Friday's session on a strong note after the release of better-than-expected earnings from American Express and Intel.

American Express reported a quarterly profit and revenue that beat analyst expectations. Those results were driven in part by strong card fee revenues. The stock gained more than 2% and hit a record high.