Greater Baltimore tech funding deals that flew under the radar 
 Lots of money changes hands in the tech industry. Not every funding deal comes with a "wow" dollar figure. 


But we know every dollar being infused into Baltimore's startups represents potential growth for those companies, and ultimately, potential economic returns for the state and region. So we think they're worth noting. 


            
            
        I will be doing these roundups periodically to help us all keep track of who is bringing in money, who is giving it out and other tech happenings of interest. If I missed any news, or if there is anything going on in the tech sphere you'd like to tell me about, drop me a line at meichensehr@bizjournals.com.


Here are the Greater Baltimore companies that have brought in some extra bucks recently:


Circonus ($6.8M): You may have seen in our paper this week that this Fulton-based IT tech startup just raised $6.8 million. But don't get too attached, Maryland. A veteran Philadelphia tech executive, Bob Moul, has taken over the top seat at the company and is planning to move its headquarters to his home city soon. Circonus' new funding round was led by Philadelphia-based investment firm Osage Venture Partners. The firm is backed by about $8.8 million to date. 


Elixirgen Therapeutics Inc. ($5M): This Baltimore biotechnology company has raised $5 million in new funding, according to a recent SEC filing. The company is developing therapeutics targeting rare genetic diseases. The new funding follows on a $4 million round the company raised in 2018. 


Prevailion ($1.5M): This Fulton cyber firm announced that Legion Capital Partners LLC, a venture fund led by two veteran cyber head honchos, has made a strategic investment in the company. Legion invested about $1.5 million in the firm, according to PitchBook. The infusion came four months after Prevailion had secured a $10 million Series A round, led by AllegisCyber, a Silicon Valley and Maryland-based cybersecurity venture firm. The company is backed by $13.2 million to date.


Unleashed Technologies (unknown amount): North Carolina-based investment firm, Linc Partners, has acquired a majority stake in Columbia web design firm Unleashed Technologies. The size of the investment deal was not specifically disclosed beyond being a “multimillion dollar” figure. Unleashed has not previously taken on any outside investments.


AKUA Inc. (unknown amount): This Baltimore cybersecurity firm has raised an new round of funding — but isn't talking about how much. Akua is a spinoff of Baltimore cybersecurity company CyberPoint, and is developing a software platform aimed at improving real-time tracking in the shipping and logistics industry. The firm is previously backed by $3.25 million in seed funding, raised in 2017. 


SecuLore Solutions ($750,000): This Odenton-based security firm has been awarded a $750,000 federal grant by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Science and Technology Directorate. The company specializes in protecting public safety infrastructure, like 911 call centers, from cyber attacks. The grant will support research and development for the firm's tech applying to emergency communications systems. 


NeoProgen Inc. (up to $300,000): This Baltimore-based company was one of three companies to recently earn grant funding through the Maryland Stem Cell Research Fund. The up to $300,000 grants are doled out by Maryland Technology Development Corp. (TEDCO), and go to Maryland-based startups that are developing stem cell-based products, to help companies move their tech toward commercialization. NeoProgen is based around technology developed by Dr. Sunjay Kaushal, a heart surgeon at the University of Maryland, Baltimore, and is focused on developing tech that can help regenerate heart tissue.


Neurologic Solutions Inc., Halocytech LLC and Prebo LLC (up to $150,000 each): All three of these Baltimore-based startups have earned funding from TEDCO, through the Maryland Innovation Initiative. TEDCO gives startups based on promising research or technology coming out of Maryland universities up to $150,000 through its "company formation" phase of this funding program. Neurologic Solutions, which is developing a tool for seizure localization in a certain kind of epilepsy, is a spinout of Johns Hopkins University. Halocytech, which is looking to produce natural bio-products from cyanobacteria, is a spinout of Morgan State University, and Prebo, which is developing an assessment system to improve kidney transplant outcomes, is a spinout of University of Maryland, College Park. 


And here are some other notable deals and happenings going on in tech:


Bandura Cyber has a new CEO, who has promised that 2020 is going to be a big year for the Greater Baltimore-bred cyber firm. For now, though, the company has moved its headquarters across state lines into Northern Virginia. The firm is backed by $13.5 million in funding to date, and would not disclose whether it plans to raise more soon. 


Baltimore cancer diagnostics firm Personal Genome Diagnostics (PGDx) has announced a new collaboration with Minnesota's renowned Mayo Clinic. The partnership will include studies focused on validating and enhancing PGDx's technology aimed at analyzing the DNA of different types of cancers. 


Check Point Software Technologies, headquartered in Israel and California, has acquired Maryland security firm Protego. Protego had offices in Pikesville and a development center in Israel. The firm was backed by $2 million in seed funding, and its investors included Ron Gula of Gula Tech Adventures, Israeli-based venture capital firm Glilot Capital Partners and security business advisory firm MetroSITE Group. The financial terms of the acquisition deal were not disclosed. 


This last item is outside the scope of Greater Baltimore companies. But given that it involves a national news story and also a pretty terrifying virus, I think it's worth a mention. Gaithersburg's Novavax Inc. is working to develop a vaccine candidate for the Wuhan-type coronavirus, a respiratory disease-causing virus that originated in China and has already spread to other countries like Japan and South Korea. The first confirmed case of a U.S. resident being infected with the virus was reported this week.