GOP senator calls for public health emergency over coronavirus 
 A GOP senator wants the Trump administration to declare the coronavirus outbreak a public health emergency.

“We have to get serious about the threat of coronavirus coming from China. I don’t trust Communist China to coordinate in a transparent and efficient manner when it comes to combatting the threat of the virus, so we have to do everything we can to protect Americans,” Sen. Rick Scott (R-Fla.) said in a statement.

“While all of the cases are still travel-related, we must take every precaution,” Scott said.

Scott’s comments came after top health officials from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institutes of Health briefed senators Friday on efforts to try and stop the spread of the virus the U.S.

There have been two confirmed cases of the coronavirus in the U.S. and officials said more cases are likely. A third case could be confirmed in Texas, along with the other two in Chicago and Washington State.

However, right now all of the cases are from people who recently traveled from China, meaning there is no transmission of the virus inside the United States.

Most senators leaving the briefing on Friday said they felt satisfied officials were taking appropriate steps.

The U.S. has already put in place screenings for fever and other symptoms at five major U.S. airports. The State Department and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have also issued a travel advisory, telling U.S. citizens not to take unnecessary trips to the affected areas in China.

Scott did not specify what additional steps he wants the administration to take.

A public health emergency could allow administration officials to loosen certain regulations and issue grants and spend additional money that they otherwise would not be able to.

However, health officials told senators on Friday they don’t need additional money. The health officials and some senators also praised China’s cooperation.

“There was some skepticism because in the past it wasn’t — in some cases they didn’t want the bad publicity and they didn’t move as quickly as they should,” said Sen. Dick Durbin Richard (Dick) Joseph DurbinTensions between McConnell and Schumer run high as trial gains momentum Nadler gets under GOP's skin Restlessness, light rule-breaking and milk spotted on Senate floor as impeachment trial rolls on MORE (D-Ill.).

Anthony Fauci, head of the infectious disease unit of the National Institutes of Health, said he was “impressed” with China’s cooperation.

“I was involved very deeply with the SARS response. And with SARS, the Chinese were not particularly transparent …  It was an embarrassment for them. I think they regretted that. Right now, from what I can see, they're being quite transparent,” Fauci told reporters.