The Wuhan coronavirus has spread to 9 countries. Here's how to protect yourself while traveling. 
 The deadly coronavirus that originated in Wuhan, China has spread to nine other countries. The US reported its second case on Friday, and France has reported two cases as well.Hundreds of millions of people are expected to travel to and within China for the Lunar New Year, which raises the risk that the virus could spread further. Health experts recommend a few precautions to protect yourself while traveling.Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.A coronavirus outbreak that started in Wuhan, the most populous city in central China, has killed 26 people and infected more than 900.On Friday, the second case was reported in the US and two were reported in France — the first in Europe. The disease has spread to at least seven other countries outside China as well: Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Vietnam, Singapore, and Nepal. At first, authorities suspected that the coronavirus — which most likely originated at a seafood market — could only spread to humans from animals. But they have since determined that humans can transmit the virus to one other.The coronavirus family is a large group of viruses that typically affect the respiratory tract. Coronaviruses can lead to illnesses like the common cold, pneumonia, and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), which resulted in 8,000 cases and 774 deaths in China from November 2002 to July 2003.The outbreak's timing is especially worrisome, since hundreds of millions of people are expected to travel to and within China for the Lunar New Year celebration, which begins Saturday and lasts until February 8."Travel spreads this kind of virus like wildfire," Adrian Hyzler, the chief medical officer at Healix International, which offers risk-management solutions for global travelers, told Business Insider. "I think we're going to see cases popping up in cities all over the world."Here's how to stay safe while flying.