Students from Wuhan expected to visit NZ amid coronavirus outbreak 
 Students and teachers from the Chinese city of Wuhan are reportedly preparing to come to New Zealand as part of international exchange programmes.

Wuhan is the epicentre of the deadly coronavirus outbreak which is continuing to spread throughout China.

Other countries to have reported cases of the virus include the United States, Japan, Taiwan, Thailand and South Korea.

At least 25 people have died from the pneumonia-like virus that's thought to have originated from a food market in Wuhan. More than 800 cases have been confirmed.

READ MORE:

 * China builds coronavirus hospital

 * Coronavirus death toll rise to 25

 * China's deadly coronavirus spreads to Europe

 * Virus 'not a global emergency'

The outbreak has many people on edge, and prompted unprecedented lockdowns of major cities during China's most important holiday, Chinese New Year.

However the World Health Organisation does not yet consider it a global health emergency.

TVNZ reported more than 100 students and teachers bases in Wuhan are expected to come to Auckland, Massey and Canterbury universities through university partnership programmes, and that while there was nothing to suggest the students and staff had been exposed, the universities would establish early precautionary measures.

Meanwhile two international students due to start school at Auckland's Macleans College next week are stuck in China due to the deadly coronavirus lockdown.

On Friday, Macleans College principal Steven Hargreaves said the students were not yet allowed to return to New Zealand due to an internal travel ban on Wuhan.

It's not yet clear when the students will be allowed to leave Wuhan.

This week, the Ministry of Health's director of public health Dr Caroline McElnay said no cases of coronavirus has been reported in New Zealand and the risk was currently low.

"At this stage, the World Health Organisation does not recommend border screening for 2019-nCoV, and there are currently no travel restrictions at the New Zealand border related to this outbreak."

However, the ministry was taking the outbreak "very seriously".

It has established an incident management team and on Friday a technical advisory group had peer reviewed what the ministry was doing and would provide further advice.