Coronavirus warning: Animal to human infections are prodding a change 
 China is taking unprecedented precautions by locking down at least 13 cities (effectively restricting the movement of at least 41 million people) to contain the new coronavirus outbreak. The epicentre is a live animal market in Wuhan from where over 800 cases have now been reported, alongside a few from other countries. The regimented Chinese response this time is quite unlike the 2002-2003 SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) contagion that caused nearly 800 deaths in at least 17 countries. Having courted blame then for slow response and secrecy and now with an economy more integrated with the world, China has rightly upped the stakes.

India has also made preparations like thermal screening at airports. Our public health system must also gear up. In recent years, outbreaks of H1N1, dengue, chikungunya, etc have kept state health departments across the country busy. During the 2018 Nipah outbreak, Kerala faced challenges like mobilising diagnostic facilities, planning treatment protocols, setting up isolation wards, procuring protective gear and vaccines, spreading awareness and instituting community surveillance. Other states must also prepare for such contingencies.

It bears underlining that zoonotic (animal to human) transmissions have been blamed for several recent viral outbreaks like SARS, MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome), Ebola and Nipah. Virologists point to animals, some eaten as meat, carrying many more viruses waiting to invade humans. Plus, unhealthy practices like injecting excessive antibiotics/steroids and the climate emergency are rendering industrial livestock farming unsustainable. There is a way out: lab-grown and plant-based meats. Old ways of life are changing, so are the diseases, so we need new solutions. Ultra-processed foods that would once have been considered ‘unnatural’ are commonplace today. In like vein, the day should not be far when eating meat from actual animals would be outmoded and meat substitutes would be the norm.

    

         This piece appeared as an editorial opinion in the print edition of The Times of India.