Face masks selling out and Lunar New Year events canceled as Chicago’s Chinese community reacts to coronavirus spread 
 On Friday, the eve of Lunar New Year, arguably the most important Chinese holiday, events were being canceled across Chicago and restaurant business was down in the wake of fear over spread of the coronavirus. And the lone Walgreens in Chinatown had sold out of face masks within hours, as residents looked to protect themselves.Lunar New Year, which runs Saturday to Feb. 4, marks one of the busiest travel seasons among Chinese, as it’s part of the cultural tradition to return to one’s hometown and reunite with family. But this year, many plans have come to a halt because of the coronavirus outbreak in China that has begun to spread to the U.S. From restaurant reservation cancellations to travelers canceling plane reservations, many Chinese Chicagoans have taken a cautious approach to this year’s festivities, opting to stay home and avoid crowds and travel to limit opportunities for exposure. The identification of Illinois’ first coronavirus case Friday underscored the risk for some.Huan Wang, vice president of the Association of Chinese-American Scientists and Engineers and partner in the restaurants Peppercorns Kitchen in Evanston, Chinatown’s Chef Xiong – Taste of Szechuan and University Village’s L’Ours Bakery Cafe, said he’s seen a decrease in the number of people who have visited his restaurants. Combined with the weather, the drop-off in customers has made business difficult. Many patrons have opted to order delivery online instead of dining in, a service that takes a cut out of Wang’s overall profits. To help protect his staff and patrons, his restaurants are also taking extra precautions to sanitize tables and utensils, using extra-strong disinfectants for cleaning. Also, they are posting notices in the restaurants encouraging people to be considerate of other diners by covering their mouths when coughing or sneezing. Wang said some of his friends who own restaurants in Chinatown have seen cancellations for reservations booked for Lunar New Year, including a group of 80 people who canceled on Thursday. The reservations are hard to fill so close to the holiday, he said. Because festivities typically begin around dinnertime, the cancellations have dealt a heavy blow to the small businesses.The Festival of Spring, a huge show celebrating Lunar New Year, was canceled Friday.In Chicago’s Chinatown Friday morning, it seemed like the only indication that it’s Lunar New Year’s Eve were the red lanterns, wet from the unrelenting drizzle, swaying between trees on Cermak Road. The bustling neighborhood seemed concentrated at the sole neighborhood Walgreens, on Cermak near Archer Avenue. Bright blue boxes of surgical-grade face masks sat on the counter near the cash register and people lined up, buying them as quickly as the employees could stock them. But the real prize, 3M N95 masks, which customers favor for protection against viruses, had been sold out within two hours that morning. All 400 of them. Hai Xia, right, leaves the Walgreens in Chinatown empty-handed on Jan 24 after hoping to purchase a box of a specific brand of surgical face masks to protect himself and others from the coronavirus.A woman who worked at the Walgreens said another shipment of 600 masks was due to arrive later that day, hopefully in time for Lunar New Year celebrations. But before 2 p.m. the store was sold out of all face masks, all types.Wearing a black disposable face mask, Hai Xia, 25, who lives in Prairie Shores, came to the Chinatown Walgreens in hopes of finding the 3M N95 masks. His friend had told him via WeChat that Costco and Target were already sold out, so he was hoping he’d get lucky by venturing out to Chinatown. But he came up empty-handed once again. It was his second try for the day, and at that point, he was ready to try his luck online, although Amazon had been sold out for days already.“We just want to protect our life,” he said in Mandarin.Videos of how to cover your mouth when you cough and how to take preventive measures against the virus are sweeping across WeChat groups, both locally and internationally. Wang said his family, many of whom work in the medical field, have been extra diligent about sharing tips with family, friends and online groups that they’re a part of.“I think people really underestimate the potential impact of coughing,” he said. “They think they’re healthy so they don’t think they need to do anything different.”Many online groups, his included, are already putting together packages of supplies to send to Wuhan, the city where the outbreak is concentrated in China. And various community organizations have held informational seminars to help educate people on how to protect themselves and how to help.While preventive measures are necessary, Wang said there’s no need for panic. And there’s certainly no need for people to be afraid to visit the Chinatown neighborhood in Chicago.“Many of us haven’t been back to China in years,” he said with a laugh.