Medicom ProSurface Disinfectant Kills Wuhan Coronavirus 
 MONTREAL, Jan. 24, 2020 /PRNewswire/ - As health authorities and healthcare institutions worldwide work to prevent the spread of the Wuhan coronavirus (2019-nCoV), personal protection and surface disinfection will play critical roles.

Medicom recently launched ProSurface disinfectant, which is effective against the Wuhan Coronavirus, killing it in just one minute when used in accordance with label instructions. Available in wipes and spray, ProSurface works in a single step and acts faster than most disinfectant brands, requiring the treated surface to remain visibly wet for just 60 seconds.

"Disinfectants are the latest category in the extensive portfolio of infection control products Medicom offers to help protect healthcare professionals and their patients," states Ouriel Levy, Executive Vice President, Commercial and Global President, Dental. "Medicom was founded over 30 years ago to help protect healthcare professionals during the worldwide HIV crisis. Today, we are proud to offer a full range of infection control solutions, including our latest ProSurface disinfectant line that is proven to be effective against the Wuhan coronavirus," added Levy.

Public health authorities, including the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the World Health Organization (WHO), are issuing recommendations to help prevent the spread of the Wuhan coronavirus. Medicom offers a range of relevant products, such as medical grade masks, gowns and protective apparel that will be essential as these recommendations are implemented.

Medicom manufactures a complete line of face masks that comply with FDA requirements for Class II medical devices. The range includes NIOSH-approved SafeBasics® N95 respirator masks with a 95% filter efficiency level, as well as several product lines under the SafeMask® brand, including Level 3 masks, the highest level of protection available according to ASTM standards.

In addition to face masks, personal protection equipment (PPE) such as protective apparel plays an important role in preventing the spread of viruses like the Wuhan coronavirus. Medicom offers a range of SafeBasics® isolation gowns, shoe covers and disposable SMS jackets and lab coats under the SafeWear® brand. Made from top-quality materials, the line is designed to provide reliable barrier protection in a broad range of sizes.

For more information about Medicom infection control and protective products, including the complete range of face masks, please visit Medicom.com.

About Medicom

The Medicom Group is one of the world's leading manufacturers and distributors of high-quality infection control, single-use and preventive products for the medical, dental, industrial, veterinary, laboratory and health and beauty markets. Headquartered in Montreal, Canada, the company has operations in 50 countries, 8 fully controlled manufacturing facilities in North America, Europe and Asia, and sales in over 95 countries. Medicom is dedicated to making the world safer and healthier by using carefully selected materials, state-of-the-art technology and continuous innovation to provide protection that healthcare professionals can count on. Medicom distributes infection control products under the Ritmed and Hopen brands, as well as the recently acquired Hedy Canada Inc.