‘It'll all work out!’ Trump praises China for strong measures to contain killer coronavirus as more cases pop up abroad 
 US President Donald Trump has commended his Chinese counterpart for his country’s quick response to a rapidly moving coronavirus outbreak, as additional cases of the illness are confirmed in Europe and the US.

    
With the second infection confirmed in the US and two more in France, President Trump extended gratitude to Xi Jinping for Beijing’s aggressive efforts to contain the novel coronavirus – dubbed 2019-nCoV – which include tight travel restrictions over some 20 million citizens across 10 Chinese cities.
China has been working very hard to contain the Coronavirus... It will all work out well.
“The United States greatly appreciates their efforts and transparency,” Trump said. “In particular, on behalf of the American People, I want to thank President Xi!”
The second case in the US was confirmed earlier on Friday in Chicago, with 63 more patients still under monitoring. Two US senators, however, told reporters that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention could soon confirm a third American patient.
Despite the quickly climbing disease toll – which has killed 26 and sickened over 900 worldwide since last month – Chinese health officials said on Friday that they had cured the first patient of the illness, who was discharged from a hospital in Shanghai after 6 days. Most of the deaths so far have involved elderly patients with preexisting conditions.
With its epicenter in the city of Wuhan, the virus has now spread to 29 of China’s 31 provinces. Cases have also been confirmed in Taiwan, Macau, Hong Kong, Thailand, Japan, Singapore, Vietnam and South Korea, as well as the US and France, with suspected infections in several other countries. Officials in all of the affected nations have implemented screenings at airports and border crossings in hopes of catching carriers before they can transmit the illness further.

    
        
            Also on rt.com
            Did patient zero really catch new Chinese virus by eating infected bat soup? It’s actually perfectly possible
        
            
    
Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!