Union gives B.C. nurses direction on how to prepare for Wuhan coronavirus 
 Posted January 24, 2020 2:12 pm

						Updated January 24, 2020 2:13 pm

					

	


			
			

				
					
							
		
					
					

	
		Smaller font
		Descrease article font size
		-A

	
	
		Larger font
		Increase article font size
		A+

	



					
					
								
							

				


				
				
					The BC Nurses’ Union has issued a bulletin to its members about protecting themselves from risk associated with the Wuhan coronavirus.
The union says it is working with provincial health authorities to co-ordinate on pandemic planning and outbreak control plans.
In a bulletin posted Wednesday, it also recommended that members ensure that their mask fitting is up to date and that they review their worksite exposure control plan.
							    	
				
					
						
												
							
																
								
							
							
																	2:11
																									City of Toronto unveils plan to prepare for coronavirus
															
						
											
				

			

					
				City of Toronto unveils plan to prepare for coronavirus
			
							
Nurses are also being encouraged to follow directions from their health authority as it relates to the coronavirus.
	
		
		
	As of Friday morning, the BC Centre for Disease Control (BC CDC) said there were still no confirmed cases of the virus in the province.
									Story continues below advertisement

			
			
			
			


					
		
								    	
				
					
						
												
							
																
								
							
							
																	5:02
																									Coronavirus case confirmed in Chicago: health officials
															
						
											
				

			

					
				Coronavirus case confirmed in Chicago: health officials
			
							
Health officials have refused to comment on reports of several potential cases under observation.
On Friday, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control confirmed a second case of the virus in that country, this time in Chicago. The U.S. CDC is currently monitoring 63 other potential cases in the U.S.
The virus, which is believed to have emerged from a seafood market in China, has killed 26 people and sickened nearly 900 others.
With files from Rachel D’amore and Janet Brown
						

					
					
						
							© 2020 Global News, a division of Corus Entertainment Inc.