NYC welcomes the Year of the Rat: Where to enjoy the Lunar New Year this weekend 
 Get ready to celebrate New York City’s pizza rat and all his furry friends — this is their year!New York will ring in the Year of the Rat this weekend to celebrate the Chinese Lunar New Year.Festivities will take place across the five boroughs, despite extra precautions and a ban on traveling from some parts of China amid fears of a pandemic from the coronavirus that has left hundreds sick and 26 dead. An overnight fire Thursday in the heart of Chinatown at its busiest senior center put a further damper on spirits ahead of the lunar kick-off, but city officials said the fireworks, parades and other festivities will all go on as planned. Here are a few things to do in the city — and, if you take the subway, keep an eye out for rats. After all, 2020 is all about them. 21st New Year Firecracker Ceremony and Cultural FestivalFILE - Rolls of firecrackers are set off during a firecracker ceremony hosted by the Better Chinatown Society, kicking off Chinese New Year celebrations for the Year of the Dog, in Chinatown’s Sarah D. Roosevelt Park in 2018.Firecrackers will light up the afternoon on Saturday from 11 a.m. 3:30 p.m. in Chinatown’s Sarah D. Roosevelt Park.Greater Flushing Chamber of Commerce Lunar New Year ParadeMarch with Flushing’s annual Lunar New Year Parade at 9:30 a.m. on Saturday at St. George’s Church, 135-32 38th Avenue in Flushing. A reception with raffles and refreshments will follow the one-hour event.Brooklyn Chinese-American Association ParadeThe Chinese New Year Celebration Parade complete with fireworks, a lion dance and a Kung-Fu demonstration put on by the Brooklyn Chinese-American Association will take place Sunday.NEW YORK, NEW YORK - FEBRUARY 05: People celebrate the Lunar New Year in Chinatown on February 05, 2019 in New York City. Thousands of members of the Chinese American community, tourists and other New Yorkers took to the streets to celebrate the first day of the Lunar New Year, China's biggest holiday of the year. This year is the 'Year of the Pig' and celebrations are being held in Chinese and Asian communities around the world. The lighting of firecrackers is believed to ward off evil spirits and to bring the God of wealth into people's lives once New Year's Day arrives. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)Queens Botanical Garden Lunar New Year CelebrationFace-painting, mask-making and a lion dance performance will take center stage from 12 to 4 p.m. Saturday at the Queens Botanical Garden in Flushing.Brooklyn Children’s MuseumMarch wit the Chinatown Community Young Lions — and even make your own puppet — at the Brooklyn Children’s Museum Sunday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tickets are $13.Lunar New Year Tinker FestivalScience meets art at the tinker festival hosted by the Lewis Latimer House Museum from 2:30 to 5: 30 p.m. Saturday in Flushing. Be sure to RSVP in advance.People celebrate the Lunar New Year in Chinatown on Feb. 5, 2019 in New York City.Shadow Theater Workshops: The Art of Chinese New YearChinese Theatre Works artists will put on a mystical display of shadow puppetry at the China Institute in America from 2 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. in Lower Manhattan. Tickets start at $10.Lion Dance at Industry City Industry City will host a traditional lion dance Sunday from 2 to 4 p.m.