Stocks Plunge After U.S. Confirms Second Case Of Coronavirus 
 Shares of major airlines were hard hit.
AFP via Getty ImagesTopline: Amid news on Friday that a second case of coronavirus was detected in the U.S., the stock market took its biggest hit this week, as fears over the spreading Chinese virus continued to weigh on the global economy.
The threat of the new coronavirus from Wuhan, China, continues to grow globally, with 26 people now dead and 900 infected as of Friday.
News that the Center for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed its second case of the virus in the U.S., with 63 others being tested, sent the SP 500 and Nasdaq Composite indexes down almost 1%, while pushing the Dow down 0.6%—putting it on track for its worst week since mid-August 2019.
Airline stocks in China and the U.S. have been hard hit by virus fears: Shares of American Airlines and United Airlines are both down by around 5%, while Air China and China Eastern’s stocks plunged 14.3% and 12.7%, respectively.
With the coronavirus set to heavily impact China’s tourism industry during a crucial time of year (the Lunar New Year), stock prices for big casino and resort operators also slumped, as shares of Las Vegas Sands and Wynn Resorts each fell more than 3%.
Companies on Friday also began announcing business closures in China; McDonald’s “suspended business” across five cities in the region, while Disney closed its $5.5 billion Disney Resort in Shanghai—causing both stocks to fall by more than 1%.
Other groups of stocks have been affected this week amid concerns over the spreading coronavirus hurting consumer demand, including travel, retail and luxury goods companies.

Crucial statistic: Fears over the virus’ economic impact have gripped the stock market this week. All three major indexes—the Dow, SP 500 and Nasdaq—are now set for their first weekly losses of 2020. Within the SP 500, every single sector except for utilities declined on Friday, with healthcare and financial stocks leading the drop, according to Bloomberg data.
Crucial quote: While the coronavirus appeared to be the main reason for today’s market sell-off, that was just the “proverbial straw that broke the back of a market trading at unsustainable valuations with investors harboring unrealistic expectations for earnings and growth,” said Adam Crisafulli, founder of Vital Knowledge, in a note on Friday. “Investors should expect the coronavirus headlines to persist for the next few weeks at least (and they shouldn’t get alarmed when the US caseload rises).”
Key background: The World Health Organization called the outbreak an “emergency in China,” but stopped short of describing it as an international public health emergency on Thursday. With hundreds of millions of people usually travelling across Asia to celebrate the Lunar New Year, major Chinese cities including Beijing have canceled most celebrations and closed major cultural sites. By Friday, the Chinese government had officially locked down 16 cities in an attempt to quarantine the virus, restricting travel for some 35 million people in the region. The coronavirus outbreak is an extremely sensitive matter which could have political ramifications for President Xi Jinping and China’s ruling Communist Party, according to the Washington Post, since it comes at such an inopportune time. China is already facing rising food prices and a slowing economy, not to mention trade tensions with the U.S. and political challenges in Hong Kong.
Big number: The Economist Intelligence Unit believes if the coronavirus becomes as dangerous as the SARS outbreak (which killed nearly 800 people in 2003) then it could have a substantial impact on China’s economic growth. China’s current projected growth rate of 5.9% would be dragged down by 0.5% to 1% in total, the New York Times reports.
What to watch for: Chinese medical supplier stocks have surged since news of the virus spread. Zhende Medical and Jiangsu Nanfang Medical, in Shanghai, both capped out at the 10% daily gains limit in trading yesterday. E-commerce stocks, like Alibaba, could also stand to benefit: As people avoid going out and travel bans kick into effect, online businesses may see a rise in consumer spending as a result, according to Barron’s.
Further reading: Public Health Experts Say Coronavirus Exposure May Be Wider Than China Admits