Coronavirus reaches Europe as France confirms 3 cases | DW | 24.01.2020 
 French officials on Friday confirmed three cases of the new coronavirus from China, marking the first time the deadly virus was detected in Europe.

Health Minister Agnes Buzyn said two of the infected individuals had recently traveled to China and were placed in isolation. The third person is a close relative of one of the other two.

Buzyn added that more cases were likely to be discovered.

"We know that since the patient has been on French soil they have had contact with a dozen people, we are going to contact them," she said of one of the infected patients.

"You have to treat an epidemic as you treat a fire, quickly to locate the source" and "contain it as quickly as possible," Buzyn added

The virus, which is thought to have originated at an animal market in Wuhan, spread to humans and can be transmitted from person to person.

France's announcement came as more than a dozen countries around the world reported infections. Nepal also confirmed a case on Friday — the first in a South Asian country.

More than 800 cases and 26 fatalities have been reported in China, and officials there have placed a lockdown on at least 13 cities covering more than 36 million inhabitants in an attempt to contain the virus' spread.

Authorities have also canceled various events relating to the Chinese Lunar New Year, which begins Saturday and is a time when millions of Chinese travel to be with family and gather for large public celebrations.

Read more: Chinese New Year: Entering the Year of the Rat amid the coronavirus crisis

World health officials have said that China faces a national health emergency, but they have so far stopped short of declaring the outbreak a global health emergency.

Officials fear the coronavirus outbreak could mirror that of SARS pandemic, another respiratory virus that originated in China in 2002 and spread easily, eventually infecting some 8,000 individuals worldwide and killing 800 others.

At the time, China faced criticism of having covered up the initial situation surrounding the SARS virus. In contrast, health officials have recently praised China for transparently providing information on the coronavirus.

The World Health Organization director-general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, thanked Beijing on Thursday after an emergency meeting for its "cooperation and transparency" and approved of the measures China was taking to try and contain further transmission of the virus.

Following a second confirmed case of the virus in the US, President Donald Trump weighed in Friday on Twitter to thank the Chinese president for the country's response.

Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.