Lunar New Year celebrations could fuel coronavirus outbreak as China marks the Year of the Rat 
 Celebrations for Lunar New Year in China have been overshadowed by the outbreak of a highly infectious virus that has killed at least 26 people and sickened hundreds more.

The week-long celebrations to welcome the Year of the Rat began on Friday, raising fears the infection rate could accelerate as hundreds of millions of people have already travelled to see family at home and abroad.

State-run tabloid The Global Times reported that 896 cases had been confirmed in the country as of 10:00pm Friday night (local time), as authorities in Beijing and other cities cancelled many public celebrations and other events marking Lunar New Year.

The first two cases of the infection have also been declared in Europe — both in France.

Most cases have been in the city of Wuhan, where the virus is believed to have originated in a market that traded illegally in wildlife.

On the eve of the Lunar New Year, transportation was shut down in at least 13 cities with a combined population of some 36 million people.

Cutting off access to entire cities with millions of residents to stop a new virus outbreak is a step few countries other than China would consider, but it is made possible by the ruling Communist Party's extensive social controls and experience fighting the 2002-03 outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS).

Normally bustling streets, malls and other public spaces were eerily quiet in Wuhan on the second day of its lockdown.

Pharmacies were running out of supplies and hospitals were flooded with nervous residents seeking checks.

Some users on the Weibo social media site said their family members had sought diagnoses but were turned away at hospitals that were at capacity.

At least eight hospitals in Wuhan issued public calls for donations of masks, goggles, gowns and other protective medical gear, according to notices online.

China's Government has announced it is sending in military medics to Wuhan.

The World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared the new coronavirus an "emergency in China" but stopped short of declaring it of international concern.

France declared its first two confirmed cases of the coronavirus on Friday (local time), with one patient being hospitalised in Paris and the other in the south-western city of Bordeaux.

Singapore confirmed its first case on Thursday — a Chinese resident of Wuhan.

An Indian nurse working in Saudi Arabia has also been infected, Indian authorities said, although Saudi health authorities said there had been no cases in the country so far.

Thailand has confirmed four cases, Japan, South Korea and the United States have confirmed two cases each, while Taiwan has reported one.

Authorities say they have also confirmed 2,197 cases where people have had close contact with patients.

Airports worldwide are screening passengers arriving from China, with the US warning travellers to exercise increased caution in China.

Hong Kong, which has two confirmed cases, is turning two holiday camps into quarantine stations as a precaution. Taiwan has banned anyone from Wuhan from going to the island.

Symptoms include fever, difficulty breathing and coughing. Most of the fatalities have been elderly people, many with pre-existing conditions, the WHO said.

Preliminary research suggested it crossed to humans from snakes.

Some experts believe the virus is not as dangerous as the one that caused the 2002-03 SARS outbreak, which also began in China and killed nearly 800 people, or the one that caused Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), which has killed more than 700 people since 2012.

It can lead to pneumonia, which has been deadly in some cases.

"To address the insufficiency of existing medical resources," Wuhan is constructing a 1,000-bed hospital modelled after the Xiaotangshan SARS hospital in Beijing, local authorities said.

While restrictions on travel and gatherings have already been imposed, China will take stricter and more targeted measures, state television reported citing a State Council meeting, but gave no further details.

"The spread of the virus has not been cut off … Local authorities should take more responsibility and have a stronger sense of urgency," state broadcaster CCTV said.

Guan Yi, a professor of infectious diseases at the University of Hong Kong, told the New York Times that despite the control measures, there continued to be "a chance to have a pandemic outbreak".

Most of the cases and all of the deaths have been in China, but it has also been detected in Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Nepal and the United States.

The US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention said on Friday it had 63 patients under investigation, with two confirmed cases.

On Friday, US President Donald Trump praised China's handling of the coronavirus on Twitter.

"China has been working very hard to contain the coronavirus. The United States greatly appreciates their efforts and transparency. It will all work out well. In particular, on behalf of the American People, I want to thank President Xi!" Mr Trump wrote.