China accused of virus cover-up after ARRESTING people for ‘spreading rumours’ 
 CHINA has been accused of trying to cover up the coronavirus after reportedly arresting people for talking about about the deadly outbreak online.

Officials were quick to notify world health authorities of the danger, but appear to have sought to suppress the news within the country.

The outbreak, which has so far killed 26, is thought to have begun in mid-December in the eastern city of Wuhan, but was initially identified as a known strain of pneumonia.

Authorities later ruled out a variety of respiratory conditions and launched an investigation, but are reported to have arrested eight people for "publishing or forwarding false information" about the outbreak on the internet without verification.

Those people are thought to have drawn comparisons between the epidemic and Sars, a virus that causes severe respiratory difficulties and which killed more than 700 people in 17 countries in 2002.

The new outbreak was later found to a type of virus from the same family - known as coronaviruses - as Sars.

Authorities had not ruled out a form of coronavirus when the eight people were arrested for making the comparisons.

At least 26 people have so far died from the virus in China while more than 800 cases have been confirmed globally.

A number of journalists, including some from Hong Kong, have also said they were detained while trying to report on the story.

As late as January 14, one team who had been filming at a hospital had all their footage and photographs confiscated and destroyed by authorities.

It is only this week that the largest paper in Wuhan, which yesterday was put in lockdown, featured any coverage of the epidemic.

A social media post by Wuhan's railway station declaring that 300,000 people had left the city on Wednesday ahead of a travel ban was also deleted.

Claims are now mounting that such posts are being removed by authorities to hide the true impact of the outbreak from the public.

This Saturday, China is celebrating Lunar New Year, a holiday which has been dubbed the "world's largest migration" and which sees billions travelling within China.

There are concerns the event could exacerbate the spread of the virus.

Wuhan announced its ban at 2.30am local time on Thursday, while most residents were asleep, a move which has been interpreted as a sign of panic among health authorities.

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.