Child rushed to Sydney hospital with coronavirus symptoms 
 An Australian child has been rushed to Sydney Children’s hospital after showing symptoms of the deadly coronavirus.

The child arrived at Sydney international airport on Friday night and is the fifth person in Australia to be tested for the contagious infection.

Paramedics and hospital staff were seen wearing protective equipment and face masks as they transported the patient.

The child was tested for the virus and later released.

Four people have been tested for coronavirus in NSW with two patients cleared and another two still awaiting results, authorities say.

NSW chief health officer Dr Kerry Chant on Friday said the four patients have been placed in isolation and do not pose a risk of transmitting the virus that has so far killed 26 people in China.

NSW Health at 5pm said "two suspected cases of coronavirus have now been cleared" while the other two cases remain under investigation.

"We're encouraging people who have come back from Wuhan, or who have been in contact with confirmed cases in China or in other countries, to please seek care if you develop any symptoms of fever, sore throat, pneumonia, a cough or respiratory symptoms of any sort," she said.

Dr Chant said testing currently takes about six hours but that time frame will likely shrink in the future.

"It is important that we detect cases early," she said.

The four patients presented with symptoms at Sydney hospitals.

None of the four were on a flight that arrived at Sydney Airport from Wuhan on Thursday. No passengers on that flight were ill when they arrived, authorities have confirmed.

But they could still become unwell in the coming week, Australia's chief medical officer Professor Brendan Murphy said on Thursday.

Dr Chant stressed there were no confirmed cases in NSW at present and authorities would update the public if there were any confirmations.

Wuhan is the epicentre of the virus and outbound travel is now banned.

So far the death toll from the new coronavirus stands at 26 with more than 800 people infected.

Do you have a story tip? Email: newsroomau@yahoonews.com.

You can also follow us on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter and download the Yahoo News app from the App Store or Google Play.