Health officials warn China travellers of virus outbreak 
 People travelling to China for the Chinese New Year have been warned to wash their hands regularly to avoid catching a contagious cold-like illness.

An outbreak of coronavirus infections in Wuhan, a city of 11million people around 700 miles south of Beijing, has sparked a warning from Public Health England.

At least 59 people have developed pneumonia because of the virus, which officials revealed is one that hasn't been seen before.

Seven of the patients were in critical condition, the World Health Organization said Sunday, and a seafood market at the centre of the outbreak has been closed.

Although PHE said the risk to travellers was low, people are urged to practise good hygiene and be wary of coughing or breathing problems after visiting the area.

Chinese New Year will be celebrated on January 25 as the country moves into the traditional year of the rat.

Coronaviruses are a group of human-infecting viruses which cause infections in the lungs and airways.

The illnesses are usually short and cold-like, with symptoms including a runny nose, headache, cough, sore throat and a fever – but they can also cause more serious lung infections like pneumonia.

For people with weak immune systems or long-term illnesses like asthma, lung infections can have more serious or even deadly consequences.

Prior to the new discovery, there were six known coronaviruses that affect humans, including SARS and Middle East respiratory syndrome.

The type of virus causing the infections in Wuhan has not been seen before – it is described by PHE as a 'novel coronavirus'.

Possible cases have cropped up in 15 travellers who returned to Hong Kong following visits to Wuhan, and another suspected case was reported in Singapore.

Hong Kong, Singapore and South Korea are all now screening travellers from the area to try and stop the virus spreading.

Director of PHE's national infection service, Dr Nick Phin, said: 'Based on the available evidence, the risk to travellers to Wuhan from this disease is low and we are not advising them to change their plans.

'In order to minimise the risk of transmission, people travelling to the area should maintain good hand and personal hygiene.

'Travellers should seek medical attention if they develop respiratory symptoms within 14 days of visiting Wuhan [and] inform their health service about their recent travel to the city [before their appointment].

'The risk to the UK population is very low.

'The UK has robust arrangements to manage emerging diseases and we can draw on our experience of developing pioneering diagnostic tests in humans for the coronaviruses - SARS and MERS [Middle East respiratory syndrome].'

The South China Seafood City food market, where many of the infected patients had worked, has been suspended until investigations are complete.

But two possible cases seen in Hong Kong – in two females, aged 12 and 41 – are not thought to have visited the market during a trip to Wuhan, suggesting it is spreading elsewhere.

Some 163 people who had been in contact with those infected are currently under medical observation, while efforts continue to try and identify the virus.

No evidence of it spreading between people has been found and no medical staff have been infected, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission said.

Experts from China's National Health Commission are carrying out further tests, in hope of finding a cause of the cases.

Hong Kong's Hospital Authority said on Sunday that a total of 15 patients in Hong Kong were being treated for symptoms after recent visits to Wuhan.

Tests have yet to confirm if they have the same illness.

Hospitals and doctors have been directed to report cases of fever in anyone who has travelled to Wuhan in the past 14 days.

The hospital authority said it activated a newly created 'serious response' level over the weekend to curb spread of the infection.

Public Health England also warned people that bird flu often circulates in China at this time of year.

To minimise their risk of catching this, travellers should avoid touching birds or poultry.

Dr Phin added: 'Anyone planning to visit China, Hong Kong or Taiwan should minimise their exposure to any birds such as wild birds or live birds in "wet markets" as a precaution.

'We strongly urge people to avoid touching dead or dying birds and maintain good hand and personal hygiene.'