Coronavirus spreads to Beijing as China confirms 139 new cases 
 China has reported 139 new cases of pneumonia, caused by the outbreak of a new coronavirus strain that medical experts are still struggling to understand, with the first cases being reported Beijing.

Beijing’s Daxing health commission confirmed two new cases of coronavirus on Monday.

In the southern Guangdong province which borders Hong Kong, the health commission confirmed one case. They are the first instances of the illness spreading to Chinese cities outside Wuhan, where cases were first discovered.

The Wuhan Municipal Health Commission said in a statement that 136 cases of coronavirus emerged in the city on Saturday and Sunday. This is a significant jump from the 62 reported on the weekend.

There are fears the number may jump during the start of this week’s lunar new year holiday, when millions travel for family celebrations.

The new strain of the Sars-like coronavirus has caused alarm because of its connection to severe acute respiratory syndrome, which killed more than 750 people globally in 2002-03.

Two people have died in Wuhan from the virus, that has previously been thought to be linked to the Huanan seafood market. But the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Sunday that some of the new cases did not appear to be linked to the market.

No human-to-human transmission has been confirmed so far, but Wuhan’s health commission has previously said the possibility “cannot be excluded”.

There have been two cases reported in Thailand and one in Japan.

On Saturday the WHO said the patient in Japan had travelled to Wuhan in alate December but did not visit the Hunan seafood market or any other live animal markets.

“He has indicated that he was in close contact with a person with pneumonia,” the WHO said.

The WHO’s says although the cause of the outbreak is not known, it said it is prudent to avoid contact with people suffering from “acute respiratory infections”.

Common signs of new coronavirus infection include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties, the WHO said. In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia and severe acute respiratory syndrome.