China confirms 139 new cases of mysterious coronavirus 
 Associate Professor Adam Kamradt-Scott, from the Centre for International Security Studies at the University of Sydney, said while the jump in cases was “a bit alarming”, more people were becoming aware of the symptoms of the virus so more suspected cases were being identified and then confirmed with laboratory testing.
Passengers walk past a thermal scanner upon their arrival at Narita airport in Japan. Credit:Getty
The novel coronavirus, known as 2019-nCoV, is notable because of similarities with the one that sparked Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, 17 years ago. Unlike SARS, which killed almost 800 people, the 2019-nCov isn't known to have spread to health workers.
The source and transmission routes of the 2019-nCov virus are still unknown, the National Health Commission said in a statement on Sunday.
Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses, some causing illness in people, and others that circulate among animals, including camels, cats, and bats, the CDC said. Animal coronaviruses can rarely evolve and infect people, and then spread between people.

Medical staff transfer patients to Jin Yintan hospital. Credit:Getty Images
Some of the patients in Wuhan worked or shopped at a seafood market where live animals and wildlife parts were also reportedly sold.
"While most of these infections seem to be happening from animals to people, there is some indication that limited person-to-person spread is happening," Messonnier said.
Provincial health authorities in Guangdong confirmed a case on Sunday in a 66-year-old Shenzhen resident who developed fever and fatigue on January 3 during a five-day trip to Wuhan.
Officials in Thailand reported two cases last week, while Japan confirmed a case on Thursday. All of them either lived in Wuhan or had spent time there, though none was linked to the seafood market.

A woman wears a mask in Wuhan, which has been linked to cases of the new coronavirus.Credit:Getty Images
Health authorities said that as of 10 pm Sunday, 25 of the city's 198 cases had been cured. A further three had been discharged from the hospital. 170 cases were being treated in isolation wards at various hospitals, of which 126 cases are mild, 35 are severe, and nine cases are critically ill.
Of the 136 patients reported over the weekend, 66 were male and 70 were female; the youngest was 25 years old and the oldest was 89. The most recent illness occurred before Saturday, and initial symptoms were mostly fever, cough or chest tightness, and difficulty breathing.
Chinese authorities said the outbreak is "still preventable and controllable," in an attempt to reassure the public as hundreds of millions of people prepare to travel ahead of the country's biggest annual festivities. The country will "implement non-proliferation measures," the National Health Commission said, adding it will increase monitoring over the Lunar New Year period that starts later this week.
With reporting by Rachel Clun.