SARS-like Virus Spreads In China, Nearly 140 New Cases 
 Beijing, (UrduPoint / Pakistan Point News - 20th Jan, 2020 ) :A mysterious SARS-like virus has killed a third person and spread around China -- including to Beijing -- authorities said Monday, fuelling fears of a major outbreak as millions begin travelling for the Lunar New Year in humanity's biggest migration. 
The new coronavirus strain, first discovered in the central city of Wuhan, has caused alarm because of its connection to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which killed nearly 650 people across mainland China and Hong Kong in 2002-2003. 
Wuhan has 11 million inhabitants and serves as a major transport hub, including during the annual Lunar New Year holiday which begins later this week and sees hundreds of millions of Chinese people travel across the country to visit family. 
A third person was confirmed to have died and 136 new cases were found over the weekend in Wuhan, the local health commission said, taking the total number of people to have been diagnosed with the virus in China to 201. 
No human-to-human transmission has been confirmed so far, but authorities have previously said the possibility "cannot be excluded". 
Health authorities in Beijing's Daxing district said two people who had travelled to Wuhan were treated for pneumonia linked to the virus and are in stable condition.
 
In southern Guangdong province, a 66-year-old Shenzhen man was quarantined on January 11 after contracting a fever and showing other symptoms following a trip to visit relatives in Wuhan, the provincial health commission said in a statement. He is also in stable condition. 
Shenzhen officials said another eight people were under medical observation. 
"Experts believe that the current epidemic situation is still preventable and controllable," the Guangdong health commission said. 
Five other people have been put in isolation and tested in eastern Zhejiang province. 
Three cases have been reported overseas -- two in Thailand and one in Japan, all of whom had visited Wuhan. 
At Beijing's crowded central railway station, some travellers wore masks as a precaution but were not too concerned about the virus.
"Watching the news, I do feel a little worried. But I haven't taken precautionary measures beyond wearing regular masks," said Li Yang, a 28-year-old account manager who was heading home to the northern region of Inner Mongolia for the Lunar New Year.
A 26-year-old woman surnamed Guo, who was heading to northeast Liaoning province from Beijing, said she and her friends generally avoided crowded areas and have been reminding each other to wear masks.