Mysterious Virus With Pneumonia-Like Symptoms Is Killing People In China & We Should Be Worried 
 A mysterious virus is killing people in China. The country reported third death as the new virus has reached the third Asian country. This has fuelled fears of a major outbreak as millions begin travelling for the Lunar New Year in humanity's biggest migration.
The new coronavirus strain, first discovered in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, has caused alarm because of its connection to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which killed nearly 650 people across mainland China and Hong Kong in 2002-2003.
Wuhan has 11 million inhabitants and serves as a major transport hub, including during the annual Lunar New Year holiday which begins later this week and sees hundreds of millions of Chinese people travel across the country to visit family.
Over the weekend, third person was confirmed to have died and 136 new cases were found in Wuhan. This has taken the total number of people to have been diagnosed with the virus in China to 201.
 Passengers arrive at the train station in Hanzhong, a mountainous region of Shaanxi province/afp
 Today, South Korea reported its first case -- a 35-year-old woman who flew in from Wuhan. Thailand and Japan have previously confirmed a total of three cases -- all of whom had visited the Chinese city.
No human-to-human transmission has been confirmed so far, but authorities have previously said the possibility "cannot be excluded".
“In southern Guangdong province, a 66-year-old Shenzhen man was quarantined on January 11 after contracting a fever and showing other symptoms following a trip to visit relatives in Wuhan, the provincial health commission said. He is also in stable condition,” said a report by AFP.
 medical staff members carrying a patient into the Jinyintan hospital, where patients infected by a mysterious SARS-like virus are being treated, in Wuhan in China's central Hubei province./AFP
Shenzhen officials said another eight people were under medical observation.
"Experts believe that the current epidemic situation is still preventable and controllable," the Guangdong health commission said.
At Beijing's crowded central railway station, some travellers wore masks as a precaution but were not too concerned about the virus.
 A quarantine station measures passenger body temperatures at Narita Airport/AFP
The World Health Organisation (WHO) said on Twitter Monday that "an animal source seems the most likely primary source" with "some limited human-to-human transmission occurring between close contacts".
It said the new cases in China were the result of "increased searching and testing for (the virus) among people sick with respiratory illness".
Passengers are also being screened at some airports in Thailand and the United States.
In Wuhan, 170 people are still being treated at hospital, including nine in critical condition, the city health commission said, adding that 25 people have been discharged so far.

Chinese state media moved to calm the mood as discussion about the coronavirus spreading to other Chinese cities swelled on social media.
Nationalist tabloid Global Times called for better handling of the new virus than that of the 2003 SARS outbreak.
With Inputs From AFP