China virus cases up sharply as infection spreads 
 Image copyright
                 EPA
                
            
            
            
                Image caption
                
                    The majority of cases have been detected in the city of Wuhan
                
            
            
        China has reported 139 new cases of a mysterious virus in two days, with the outbreak spreading from Wuhan to other major Chinese cities.
Beijing, the capital, reported two cases, while the southern tech hub of Shenzhen reported one suspected case.
The total number of confirmed cases now exceeds 200, and three have died from the respiratory illness. 
The sharp uptick in those infected comes as millions of Chinese prepare to travel for the Lunar New Year holidays.
Health officials have identified the infection, which first appeared in Wuhan in December, as being a strain of coronavirus. They say it has led to an outbreak of viral pneumonia, but much about it remains unknown, including exactly how it has been spreading.
South Korea reported its first confirmed case of the virus on Monday, following Thailand and Japan. 
The outbreak has revived memories of the Sars virus - also a coronavirus - that killed 774 people in the early 2000s across dozens of countries, mostly in Asia.
Analysis of the genetic code of the new virus shows it is more closely related to Sars than any other human coronavirus.
Experts in the UK told the BBC the number of people infected could still be far greater than official figures suggest, with estimates closer to 1,700. 

            
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        What we know about the virus

It is understood to be a new strain of coronavirus that has not previously been identified in humans

Coronaviruses are a broad family of viruses, but only six (the new one would make it seven) are known to infect people

Scientists believe an animal source is "the most likely primary source" but that some human-to-human transmission has occurred 

Signs of infection include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties

People are being advised to avoid "unprotected" contact with live animals, thoroughly cook meat and eggs, and avoid close contact with anyone with cold or flu-like symptoms


Source: World Health Organization 

            
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Who has been infected? 
Authorities in Wuhan, a central Chinese city of 11 million that has been at the heart of the outbreak, said 136 new cases had been confirmed over the weekend, with a third person dying of the virus. 
In total, the city alone has confirmed almost 200 cases of the coronavirus. As of late Sunday, officials said 170 people in Wuhan were still being treated in hospital, including nine in critical condition. 
Health officials in Beijing's Daxing district said two people who had travelled to Wuhan were treated for pneumonia linked to the virus. 
In Shenzhen, officials said a 66-year-old man showed symptoms of the virus following a trip to visit relatives in Wuhan. Eight others in Shenzhen have been quarantined and are under observation to determine if they have the virus. 

            
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        The virus has also spread abroad. Two cases have been confirmed in Thailand and one in Japan - all of them involving people from Wuhan or who had visited the city.
In South Korea, the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said a 35-year-old Chinese woman was suffering from a fever and respiratory problems after travelling there from Wuhan. 
She was put into isolation and treated at a local hospital. 



            
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        The World Health Organization said it was currently not recommending restrictions on travel or trade, but was providing guidance to countries preparing for any outbreak.
Singapore and Hong Kong have been screening air passengers from Wuhan, and US authorities announced similar measures starting on Friday at three major airports in San Francisco, Los Angeles and New York.
What are the Chinese authorities saying?
China's National Health Commission on Sunday said the virus was "still preventable and controllable", while warning that close monitoring was needed given that the source, transmission and mutation methods were unknown.
It said there had been no cases of the virus spreading from one person to another, but that it had instead crossed the species barrier and come from infected animals at a seafood and wildlife market in Wuhan.

            
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 AFP
                
            
            
            
                Image caption
                
                    Health officials have been analysing the seafood market where they believe the virus originated
                
            
            
        However the WHO said it believed there had been "some limited human-to-human transmission occurring between close contacts".
"As more… cases are identified and more analysis undertaken, we will get a clearer picture of disease severity and transmission patterns," it wrote on Twitter. 
It noted that the rise in cases in China was a result of "increased searching and testing for [the virus] among people sick with respiratory illness". 

    
            
            Media playback is unsupported on your device

      
    
    Media captionCoronavirus feared to have infected more than initially thought according to scientists
What impact could Lunar New Year have?
From Friday, most Chinese will begin their week-long Lunar New Year holidays.
It's a time when hundreds of millions travel around China to visit family, raising fears that authorities will not be able to adequately monitor further spread of the disease.
Wuhan is a transport hub and authorities there have for nearly a week been using temperature scanners at airports, and train and bus stations. Those showing signs of fever have been registered, given masks and taken to hospitals and clinics.

            
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 AFP
                
            
            
            
                Image caption
                
                    Chinese companies shut down for Lunar New Year, with hundreds of millions of people travelling
                
            
            
        Authorities say they will now also be screening everyone leaving the city.
At Beijing's central railway station, some travellers donned masks but did not appear overly concerned about the virus.
"Watching the news, I do feel a little worried. But I haven't taken precautionary measures beyond wearing regular masks," Li Yang, a 28-year-old account manager travelling to the region of Inner Mongolia, told the AFP news agency.