China reports sharp rise in cases of Sars-like virus 
 China has reported a sharp rise in the number of people infected with a Sar-like
virus and confirmed cases outside of the central city of Wuhan for the first
time, adding to concerns about the spread of the respiratory disease.

Authorities in Wuhan said 136 patients had been infected with the virus,
bringing the number of confirmed cases in the city to more than 190. Officials
in Beijing said two patients had been diagnosed with the virus, while
authorities in Guangdong province, which borders Hong Kong, confirmed one case.

More than 20 patients have been transferred from Wuhan to the southern Chinese
city of Shenzhen to receive treatment, according to three staff from Shenzhen
People’s Third Hospital. 

The virus has killed three people and nine remain in critical condition since it
was identified earlier this month. 

The World Health Organization tweeted on Monday the latest outbreak had most
likely started with an animal source but also noted there had been “some limited
human-to-human transmission occurring between close contacts”. 

Most patients diagnosed with the virus have presented with relatively mild
symptoms. Health authorities in Wuhan said on Monday that 25 patients have been
released from hospital after recovering from the infection.

But the outbreak has evoked memories of the Sars outbreak that killed nearly 800
people in 2003 after originating in China. Authorities have said the ailment was
caused by a coronavirus, the same kind of pathogen involved in the Sars outbreak
that Chinese officials covered up for months.

A study by the MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis at Imperial
College in London estimated that more than 1,700 people in the city could have
been infected with the disease by mid-January.

The number of cases may have been under-reported because in younger or fitter
patients the symptoms might not be serious enough to warrant seeking treatment,
according to experts.

RECOMMENDED
ExplainerDisease control and preventionHow dangerous is China’s latest viral
outbreak?alt
[https://www.ft.com/__origami/service/image/v2/images/raw/http%3A%2F%2Fprod-upp-image-read.ft.com%2Fc41c8670-368d-11ea-ac3c-f68c10993b04?source=next=scale-down=best=240]
South Korean authorities on Monday confirmed its first case of the virus. A
35-year-old woman has been quarantined at a local hospital after arriving from
China on Sunday, according to health officials.

A patient diagnosed with the virus in Japan last week was released from
hospital. Two people from Thailand diagnosed with the disease after travelling
from Wuhan this month presented fever-like symptoms without becoming severely
ill. 

Before this outbreak, six coronaviruses had been identified in humans. Four
caused relatively mild cold-like symptoms while the other two, Sars and Middle
East respiratory syndrome (Mers), can be fatal.

Additional reporting by Kang Buseong in Seoul