Wuhan virus outbreak: MOH to expand temperature screening at Changi Airport 
 A woman wearing a mask walks past a quarantine notice about the outbreak of coronavirus in Wuhan, China, at an arrival hall of Haneda airport in Tokyo, Japan, on 20 January, 2020. (PHOTO: Reuters)

SINGAPORE — The Ministry of Health (MOH) on Monday (20 January) said that it will expand temperature screening at Changi Airport and issue health advisory notices for all inbound travellers on flights arriving from China from Wednesday, as the outbreak of a new coronavirus in China has spread to more cities and countries.

The additional precautionary measures are in response to “the increase in cases of novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan and exported cases to other cities and countries” as well as “the anticipated increase in travel volume in the lead up to the Chinese New Year holidays”, said the ministry in a press statement.

Since 3 January, temperature screening has been implemented at Changi Airport for inbound travellers arriving on flights from Wuhan, with suspect cases that have been referred to hospitals for further assessment.

Advisory posters have also been placed at the airport.

The ministry added that it, together with the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID) have developed a joint clinical guidance to advise on the management of suspect cases of the novel coronavirus.

“The guidance has been disseminated to Emergency Department and Infectious Diseases physicians, and public sector hospital laboratories. The MOH has also issued a reminder on 20 January to hospitals and general practitioners to be vigilant for cases with pneumonia who have recently travelled to Wuhan,” said the MOH.

To date, there have been no confirmed cases of the coronavirus reported in Singapore, after investigating six suspected cases here.

“However, given that Singapore is a travel hub, we expect to see more suspect cases, and cannot rule out the possibility of imported cases, the ministry added.

“Once a case is confirmed, contact tracing will be initiated, and we will implement strict isolation, quarantine, and infection control and prevention measures to prevent further transmission.”

The ministry’s announcement comes as Chinese authorities revealed earlier on Monday that 136 new cases of pneumonia caused by the coronavirus strain were found in Wuhan over the weekend, adding to 62 already known cases, A third death occurred on Saturday.

South Korea on the same day reported its first confirmed case of the coronavirus, a 35-year-old female Chinese national who had traveled from Wuhan, the fourth patient to be reported outside China. Last week, two cases were reported in Thailand and one in Japan. All three involved people from Wuhan or who recently visited the city.

According to Reuters, a report by London Imperial College's MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis estimated that by 12 January there were 1,723 cases in Wuhan City with the onset of related symptoms.

Members of the public have been urged to remain vigilant and for travellers to Wuhan to monitor their health closely. The ministry also advised travellers and members of the public to adopt the following precautions at all times:

China confirms spread of new virus as cases surge

Singaporeans must welcome new citizens, not allow others to ‘exploit’ tensions and divide us: Heng Swee Keat