Chinese medics in hazmat suits scan passengers ON planes for killer bug 
 CHILLING footage shows Chinese medics in hazmat suits scanning plane passengers for symptoms of a deadly new virus, it has been reported.

Coronavirus, which can lead to a life-threatening form of pneumonia and can be passed between humans, is sweeping across China with at least 217 people already infected.

However, there are fears the official figures are downplaying the spread as three people have died after the outbreak started in Wuhan city in December.

The viral footage was reportedly filmed on an Air China flight travelling from Wuhan to Chinese gambling capital Macau – known as Asia’s Las Vegas.

According to Beijing News, health officials in Macau said that all passengers from Wuhan would need to have their body temperatures taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus.

The person who filmed the footage, named only as Cheng, said she saw the medics wearing protective suits checking people with thermometers before they left the plane, the news outlet reports.

She said the clip was filmed on January 12 on Air China flight CA119.

The eyewitness said all travellers were allowed to disembark the jet and the entire checking process lasted 10 minutes.

The bug has infected at least 217 people across China and has reached beyond its borders, with four new cases in Japan, Thailand and South Korea.

And experts have now confirmed the deadly virus can move between humans.

Zhong Nanshan, a respiratory expert leading a Chinese government team, said two people in Guangdong province in southern China caught the disease from family members.

The National Health Commission task force also found that some medical workers have tested positive for the virus, the English-language China Daily newspaper said.

Human-to-human transmission could make the virus spread more rapidly and widely.

The infection first appeared in Wuhan in December and the sharp rise in cases since then comes as millions of people prepare to travel to China for the Lunar New Year holidays.

It is believed to have started from people who picked it up at a fresh food market in the central Chinese city which has a population of 11 million.

And there are reports that parts of Wuhan have been quarantined to stop the virus spreading after 198 cases were confirmed there.

Zhong said the two people in Guangdong had not been to Wuhan but family members had returned from the city, the China Daily said.

The Wuhan Municipal Health Commission confirmed 136 new cases of pneumonia caused by the coronavirus strain had been found in the city over the weekend, adding to 62 already known cases.

Two men aged 61 and 69 have died in Wuhan, with a third death now confirmed.

Some 170 people in Wuhan were still being treated in hospital as of late Sunday, officials said, including nine in critical condition.

And a shocking report by London Imperial College’s MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis suggested that by January 12 there were as many as 1,723 cases in Wuhan City.

Chinese health authorities have not commented directly on the report.

Health experts in the UK have told the BBC that the official figure could be downplaying the epidemic and that the number of those actually infected may be closer to 1,700.

But authorities around the world, including in the US and many Asian countries, have since increased screening of travellers from Wuhan, amid fears of a global spread.

Five individuals in Beijing and 14 in southern China's Guangdong province have also been diagnosed with the bug, state broadcaster CCTV reported today.

And seven more suspected cases have been found in other parts of the country, including in Sichuan and Yunnan provinces in the southwest and in Shanghai.

It comes as four cases were also confirmed abroad - all of them involving people from Wuhan or who had visited the city.

On Monday, South Korea reported its first confirmed case of the coronavirus.

The patient was a 35-year-old female Chinese national who had travelled from Wuhan.

And last week, two cases were reported in Thailand, with another in Japan.

The World Health Organisation will have an emergency meeting in Geneva on Wednesday to discuss whether the spread of Coronavirus constitutes an international health emergency.

A Brit tourist, Ash Shorley, 32, is also feared to be the first western victim of the illness.

He was rushed to hospital after the bug infected both lungs while he was on Koh Phi Phi island in Thailand.

The virus belongs to the same family of coronaviruses as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which killed nearly 774 people globally in the early 2000s outbreak that also started in China.

Its symptoms include fever and difficulty in breathing, which are similar to many other respiratory diseases and pose complications for screening efforts.

China’s National Health Commission said on Sunday it will step up prevention efforts, but acknowledged it still doesn’t know the source of the virus.

"As more… cases are identified and more analysis undertaken, we will get a clearer picture of disease severity and transmission patterns," it wrote on Twitter.

It noted that the rise in cases in China was a result of "increased searching and testing for the virus among people sick with respiratory illness".