Coronavirus reaches Europe with three confirmed cases in France 
 France has confirmed three cases of coronavirus as the first in Europe.

Speaking to French media in a press conference earlier today, Minister of Solidarity and Health Agnes Buzyn said one case of the virus had been found in Bordeaux and another near Paris.

Officials in France announced a third case of coronavirus later on Friday evening.

Two of the people suffering from the illness had travelled to China, Ms Buzyn said.

The patient in Bordeaux, 48, had ‘been in contact with a dozen people since his arrival in France’ but is now in isolation.

After announcing the first two cases, the minister said earlier she expected more cases to come, stating:  ‘We will probably have other cases.’

It comes as the official death toll in China has risen to 26, with more than 830 confirmed cases.

The Government’s emergency Cobra committee called a meeting to discuss the threat of coronavirus today as 14 people in Britain were given the all-clear.

Public Health England (PHE) has warned it is ‘highly likely’ cases will be seen in UK.

Health Secretary Matt Hancock has also stated there is an ‘increased likelihood’ of cases of the virus occurring in the UK.

One of those cleared in the UK was Michael Hope, 45, who spent two days in quarantine this week after returning to Newcastle from Wuhan, where the illness started.

A second case of the virus was confirmed in the US today after a woman in Chicago, Illinois, contracted it.

The woman in her 60s, who had returned from Wuhan, is being treated in hospital and is understood to be doing well.

However, the scale of the outbreak in China became clear today when it was revealed a large new hospital was being built in Wuhan in just 10 days.

The gargantuan engineering project is being carried out on a garden site near a lake on the outskirts of the city that had previously been earmarked as a holiday complex.

Although officials have confirmed 830 cases in China, researchers at Imperial College London’s MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis have estimated that numbers are more likely in the thousands.

Experts say the severity of symptoms can range from mild to serious, meaning many more people could be carrying the bug without realising it.