Delhi prepares to combat coronavirus threat 
 The rising novel coronavirus toll has forced China to confine its millions in a massive multi-city lockdown. And the threat is spreading fast.

By late Friday evening, it reached Nepal where the first confirmed case was reported, sending authorities in India into a tizzy.

Eleven people have been put under observation in Mumbai, Kerala and Hyderabad. While no flyer in Delhi has tested positive, all top hospitals here braced to meet the Chinese virus threat.

Doctors admitted that there is no treatment or vaccine available yet, but were optimistic that authorities will be able to contain the spread of the virus in the country.

"The Indian government is keeping a close watch on the situation, like it was done in cases of Zika and Ebola viruses. We were able to control them in the past so we have the potential to manage the situation now," said Dr Jugal Kishore, Head of Department, Community Medicine, Safdarjung Hospital.

He added that there is no need to panic as mortality rate so far in Coronavirus cases is less than that in other deadly viruses. "However, precaution should be taken to check the spread. As it's a new virus, we don't know how this is going to behave in a country like India," he said.

RML Hospital has been made the nodal centre for treating any Coronavirus patient. An isolation ward has been created there.

"Our team of doctors and nurses has been instructed to monitor patients. Also, the Centre is taking all preventive measures," said Dr Minakshi Bhardwaj, Medical Superintendent, RML Hospital.

The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has also set up an isolation ward and kept beds ready for treatment to any suspected case. The hospital management claimed that it has enough infrastructure and expertise to contain the spread of the disease.

"All precautionary measures in terms of personal protection equipment for healthcare workers to prevent the spread of the disease while treating infected patients are in place," said AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria.

Randeep Guleria said that if needed the hospital is ready to increase the capacity of the isolation ward. AIIMS has also reviewed preparedness with regard to management and infection prevention control facilities.

According to Dr Guleria, as of now, there is no definite treatment, antibiotics or vaccines available for combating the particular virus strain and only supportive treatment for pneumonia is given. One has to follow preventive medication strategies, he said.

A senior doctor at Delhi's Lok Nayak Hospital told Mail Today that any patient complaining of cough and cold is being thoroughly examined.

"Samples of all patients are being collected and sent to the Indian Council of Medical Research lab in Delhi or Pune's National Institute of Virology. There is no delay in the process and all the samples are being tested by trained doctors," he said.

Doctors at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital told Mail Today that they are fully equipped to handle such cases. "For now the diagnosis and isolation of such patients are required. International airports are working on thermal screening of passengers," said Dr Atul Kakar, Vice-Chairman, Department of Medicine, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.

"The clinical features of Coronavirus are fever, cough, difficulty in breathing and a history of travel from Wuhan City, China, in the last 14 days before symptoms appeared," said Dr Manoj Goel, Director and Head of Department (pulmonology and sleep medicine) at Fortis Memorial Research Institute (FMRI), Gurugram.

He said that coronavirus is most commonly spread from virus-infected persons to others through coughing, sneezing, close personal contact, touching an object or surface which has the virus on it.

Doctors said that people should use face masks, maintain good hygiene and avoid travelling in crowded places. Any kind of fever, cough and cold should be reported immediately to the nearest doctor.

Some health experts, however, said that since India has many ports and airports, it gets difficult to identify disease-carrying people. "It may not be easy to diagnose Coronavirus as the symptoms resemble an ordinary cold and cough," said an expert.

Over 1,200 passengers coming from China are undergoing thermal scanning at Delhi's IGI Airport daily, an official said.

"We have been monitoring passengers through CCTVs and additional video cameras. Apart from flyers coming from China, other passengers are also asked to go for a medical checkup if they are not feeling healthy," said an official.

Riaz, an Indian garment transporter based in Hangzhou city in south-east China, told Mail Today, "There is scare in China after the outbreak of the deadly Coronavirus. Though the place where I live is far away from the epicentre. This trip was scheduled with my family and I am happy to be back home."

A large number of Indians including students are living in different cities of China. "I am on a tourist visa to India with my girlfriend and we underwent thermal scanning at Delhi airport before security personals allowed us to step outside of the terminal. The process is taking 15 minutes," said a Chinese passenger who came from Shanghai.

According to government data, till Friday evening, 20,844 passengers from 96 flights have been screened across India. On Friday, 4,082 passengers from 19 flights were screened.

Travel advisory has been extended to 12 more airports in addition to the current seven.

According to officials, there are two flights coming daily at 11 am and 7 pm from southern and eastern cities of China carrying 700 to 750 passengers. Besides, a large number of passengers are also arriving here through countries like Hong Kong and South Korea.

Officials further said that passengers coming from Saudi Arabia are also under close watch.

The Health Ministry has instructed the airports in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Cochin to screen passengers coming from China. Signages have been put up at prominent locations in these airports for encouraging public about self-reporting. Immigration officers have been sensitised at these airports.

Close coordination is being maintained with the Ministry of Civil Aviation to coordinate screening and disseminate information to inbound passengers through inflight announcements.

Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan is reviewing the evolving scenario and preparedness status.

She has written to all states and Union Territories to review their preparedness, identify gaps and strengthen core capacities.

The Integrated Disease Surveillance Project (IDSP) has sent a detailed advisory to state units and district officials to not just look out for probable patients with a travel history to China but also keep an eye on health workers who treat patients with acute respiratory infections.

A health ministry official said, the National Institute of Virology, Pune, is fully geared up to test samples of Novel Coronavirus (nCoV).

Ten other laboratories under the Indian Council of Medical Research's Viral Research and Diagnostics Laboratories network are also equipped to test such samples if a need arises, the official added.

The government has also asked medical store organisations to maintain adequate stocks of personal protection equipment.

According to health ministry officials, rapid response teams of all states and Union Territories have been trained in the management of MERS-CoV outbreak (a similarly placed virus, reported from Middle East) in 2014.

In November-December 2019, these rapid response teams have been trained on management of high risk pathogens in the context of the Ebola virus disease outbreak in Democratic Republic of Congo.

The Ministry of External Affairs has also been requested to disseminate travel advisory (in local languages) to Indian Embassies in China and adjoining countries for wider circulation and passenger information. In view of the significant population of Indian students in China, the MEA has been requested to provide details of such students.

The Ministry of Home Affairs has been requested to share details of travellers from China who have been issued e-Visa since 31st December, 2019. WHO is being consulted for updates on technical inputs. A series of meetings has taken place to review the evolving scenario.