Coronavirus outbreak: Death toll mounts to 41 in China, says govt 
 The death toll due to the new coronavirus mounted to 41 in China, a news agency quoted the Chinese government as saying on early Saturday.

Just three out of the 41 deaths took place outside China's Wuhan, the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak.

This is nearly a 60 per cent jump from the previous death toll, that was 26.

Earlier report by the National Health Commission had confirmed that over 800 people were infected with the coronavirus while 26 people had died in China. With fresh report 15 deaths, the toll has risen to 41.

Thirteen cities in China are currently under lockdown as the deadly virus continues to spread across the country and overseas.

Late Friday, France health ministry announced two cases of the deadly new coronavirus from China, the first cases in Europe. The minister had said she expects more cases.

Besides China, Thailand has five cases, Singapore and Taiwan three, Japan, Vietnam, South Korea and the United States have each reported two cases, and Nepal one.

Meanwhile, a total of eleven people have been kept under observation for possible exposure to novel coronavirus infection- three in Mumbai, seven in Kerala and one in Hyderabad. Out of these 11, four persons, who returned from China, tested negative, the Union Health ministry had said on Friday.

As many as 20,844 passengers from 96 flights have been screened for novel coronavirus symptoms in India as of January 24, a statement from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said.

Novel coronavirus (nCoV) is a large family of viruses that causes illnesses ranging from common cold to acute respiratory syndromes, but the virus that has so far killed 25 people and affected 830 in China is a novel strain and not seen before.

It emerged from a seafood and animal market in China's Wuhan, and is suspected to have spread to as far as the US.

According to the World Health Organisation, the common symptoms of the nCoV strain include respiratory symptoms such as fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties.