Coronavirus: first Australian case confirmed in Victoria as five people tested in NSW 
 A Chinese national in Melbourne has become the first confirmed case of novel coronavirus in Australia.

Victoria’s health minister, Jenny Mikakos, said the man arrived in Melbourne at 9am on Sunday 19 January on China Southern Airlines Flight No CZ321 from Guangzhou.

The man, aged in his 50s, tested positive early on Saturday morning.

The man showed no symptoms on the flight, “so may not have been contagious” at the time, Mikakos said. But “out of an abundance of caution”, health officials were contacting everybody who was on the plane.

Eleven countries have now confirmed cases of novel coronavirus – 2019-nCoV.

“There is no reason for alarm in the general community,” Mikakos said. “We have strict protocols that are in place in terms of how we deal with these infectious disease outbreaks.”

Five people in New South Wales are now being tested for coronavirus.

NSW Health has confirmed the five tests and said two other people had been discharged after returning negative results on Friday. Another two people in Queensland are also being assessed for the virus.

Globally, the coronavirus outbreak, which began in Wuhan city in China’s central Hubei province, has killed 41 people and sickened more than 1,000.

The NSW chief health officer, Dr Kerry Chant, said the patients in Australia were in isolation and did not pose a risk of transmitting the virus.

“We’re encouraging people who have come back from Wuhan, or who have been in contact with confirmed cases in China or in other countries, to please seek care if you develop any symptoms of fever, sore throat, pneumonia, a cough or respiratory symptoms of any sort,” she said.

Chant said testing currently takes about six hours but that time frame will likely shrink in the future.

“It is important that we detect cases early,” she said.

The Australian foreign affairs minister, Marise Payne, announced the Australian government had raised its travel advice for Hubei province in central China to level four – the highest level.

“We now advise you: do not travel to and from Hubei province,” the government advises.

Payne said: “Chinese authorities have restricted travel in at least five Hubei cities. Australians going there may not be able to leave until restrictions are lifted.”

Globally, efforts to contain the deadly new coronavirus have been stepped up, and the first cases have been reported in Europe.

China has widened restrictions on movement, expanding its unprecedented lockdown during the country’s new year holiday period to 13 cities, covering at least 36 million people.

Late on Friday, authorities confirmed a further 15 deaths and 180 new cases of coronavirus, bringing the total number of fatalities to 41 people and more than 1,000 people affected.

Cases have been reported in South Korea, Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan, the United States, Thailand and Vietnam. On Friday, the first cases were reported in Europe with France saying it had identified three cases.

The World Health Organisation has stopped short of declaring the outbreak a public health emergency of global concern but called on the international community to work co-operatively to fight the spread of the virus.

There is an emerging suspicion in China that officials may be downplaying the number of cases recorded over recent weeks, recalling the government’s reluctance to disclose the full scale of the 2002-03 Sars outbreak, which killed almost 800 people.

Videos circulating on Weibo and other social media, reportedly from Hubei hospitals, show crowded waiting rooms and distressed and overwhelmed medical staff. Patients have reported being turned away from hospitals, which have been inundated with people who fear they have the virus.

Health facilities in Wuhan are reportedly running out of beds and diagnostic kits for patients who present with fever-like symptoms, which could mean many are unsure if they have the virus.

Initial symptoms of coronavirus are similar to those of a cold and flu, and include a cough or fever.

Most of the people who have died in the outbreak have been older men but on Friday, Chinese authorities confirmed a 36-year-old man had died, the youngest fatality so far.