Waco-McLennan County Public Health District Testing Possible Case of Novel Coronavirus in a Baylor Student 
 Media Contact: Lori Fogleman, Baylor University Media and Public Relations, 254-710-6275

 Follow us on Twitter: @BaylorUMedia

Additional Resource: Waco-McLennan County Public Health District Health Alert - Case of 2019 novel coronavirus testing for McLennan County resident

WACO, Texas (Jan. 24, 2020) – Baylor University has been notified by the Waco-McLennan County Public Health District that a student who recently traveled to China is being tested for a possible case of 2019 novel (new) coronavirus (2019-nCoV).

The Health District is waiting for test results from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Public health officials said the immediate health risk to the Baylor campus community is low. The CDC believes at this time that symptoms of novel coronavirus may appear in as few as two days or as long as 14 days after exposure.

Working through a coordinated response with the Waco-McLennan County Public Health District and following guidelines by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Baylor moved the individual to an isolated room on campus as a precaution. Facility Services also thoroughly sanitized the student’s residence hall room, as well as the residence hall where the individual lived. The student is being monitored by Baylor, state and local health officials. The University also is working with the student to make sure needs are being met during the isolation period.

Baylor continues to work closely with University Health Services, the Waco-McLennan County Public Health District and state and federal health officials.

Students who have questions or concerns can contact Baylor Health Services at 254-710-1010 or Health_Services@baylor.edu. An informational call center has been established at 888-283-2158 for students and parents who have questions or concerns.

More information about the virus is available on the Centers for Disease Control website.

According to the CDC, if you traveled to China on or after Dec. 1, 2019, and feel sick with fever, cough or difficulty breathing, you should:

• Seek medical care right away. Before you go to a doctor’s office or emergency room, call ahead and tell them about your recent travel and your symptoms.

• Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing.

• Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and water are not available.

In addition, flu activity continues to be high in Central Texas, and students, faculty and staff are encouraged to take the same everyday actions as above to prevent the spread of respiratory viruses.

These include getting a flu shot, avoiding those with the flu, washing your hands, covering coughs/sneezes in your elbow/sleeve and, if ill, staying home until you are fever-free for 24 hours. If you do become ill, seek medical attention within the first 48 hours of symptoms.

If students haven’t received the flu vaccine yet, the immunization is available from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday-Friday at the Health Center on the second floor of the McLane Student Life Center. To make an online appointment for a flu shot, please go to www.baylor.edu/health_center and click on My Health.

Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 17,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 90 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions.