Wish PH, lovely Mikee good luck 
 Concerns over the spreading coronavirus have led to the postponement of a big world boxing championship bout slated in China on Feb 1.

The world junior welterweight championship between Jose Ramirez and Victor Postol originally set at the Haikou Mission Hills in Hainan, China, will be staged in safe place on a later date.

“The health and safety of our fighters and everyone working on the event is the most important thing,” said Top Rank chair Bob Arum.

A fresh report said five other Chinese localities have been isolated.

The Asia Oceania Boxing Olympic Qualifying event in Wuhan, China, will have to be staged away from the city, among the first to be locked down due to the deathly virus.

The Philippines was among the countries who have offered to host the tournament.

Ed Picson, secretary general of the Association of Boxing Alliances in the Philippines (Abap), said they have sent a letter of intent last Tuesday.

“Wuhan has been canceled and reports said the tournament would be held outside China, most probably on March 1,” he said.

What’s the chance of the Philippines hosting the vital tournament?

“India and Thailand are also interested, let’s keep our fingers crossed,” he said.

Picson said the Philippines hopes to field six men and four women fighters in the Olympic qualifiers.

The International Olympic Committee (IOC) Boxing Task Force has accepted the decision of original host Wuhan to cancel the Asia Oceania Tokyo 2020 Olympic Qualifying Event.

Mikee Cojuangco-Jaworski, the Philippine representative to the IOC, has informed the Philippine Olympic Committee (POC) that the meet, set on Feb. 3 to 14, has been canceled.

POC president Abraham Tolentino has expressed interest in having the qualifiers held in the Philippines.

Abap president Ricky Vargas said they are open to the idea of hosting the qualifiers.

“No guarantees we could field additional boxers, but there’s nothing like a hometown advantage,” Picson said.

“Mikee Cojuangco-Jaworski assured she would remind the IOC of our offer,” Picson said, adding the country’s successful hosting of the 30th Southeast Asian Games should be a big boost to the Philippine bid.

In making the official announcement, the Olympic Task Force did not mention when or where the tournament would resume.

“We continue to work closely with the Chinese Olympic Committee and all partners to explore alternatives and will immediately inform National Olympic Committees, National Federations and officials on any developments,” the Olympic Task Force said in a statement.