Trump Praises China's 'Efforts and Transparency' in Tackling Coronavirus as Outbreak Claims 41 Lives 
 Trump Praises China's 'Efforts and Transparency' in Tackling Coronavirus as Outbreak Claims 41 Lives

					
						
							US President Donald Trump. (Image: Reuters)
						

                                              
						
							The deadly viral outbreak in China has now killed 41 people, while the number of infected cases has soared to nearly 1,300, authorities said Saturday.

																					
								AFP  

								Last Updated: January 25, 2020, 7:36 AM IST

															

							
						

					

					  
					
					Washington: US President Donald Trump thanked China on Friday for its "efforts and transparency" in tackling a deadly virus that has triggered a vast quarantine in the country.
  
"China has been working very hard to contain the Coronavirus," Trump tweeted, hours after the United States confirmed its second case of the SARS-like virus that has reached half a dozen countries.

"The United States greatly appreciates their efforts and transparency," he added. "It will all work out well. In particular, on behalf of the American People, I want to thank President Xi!" 

The deadly viral outbreak in China has now killed 41 people, while the number of infected cases has soared to nearly 1,300, authorities said Saturday.

The 15 new deaths all took place in Wuhan, the city of 11 million where the deadly respiratory contagion first emerged, the Hubei Health Commission said.

At least 444 new cases of the virus have been found, raising the total number to 1,287, the National Health Commission said in a separate statement. The disease has spread to 30 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities.

Wuhan and 13 other cities in Hubei have been locked down in an unprecedented quarantine effort aimed at containing the deadly respiratory contagion, which has spread to several other countries.

The Hubei Health Commission also reported 180 new cases overall in the province, 77 of them in Wuhan but the bulk of the rest spread out across the locked-down smaller cities. There are now 729 cases in Hubei alone. Several of those cities were reporting their first cases of the pathogen — 2019 Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) — the commission said.
										
					
					
					
					Get the best of News18 delivered to your inbox - subscribe to News18 Daybreak. Follow News18.com on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook,  Telegram, TikTok and on YouTube, and stay in the know with what's happening in the world around you – in real time.

										
					 






					Next Story