First Case of Coronavirus Confirmed in Australia 
 First Case of Coronavirus Confirmed in Australia

The first case of coronavirus has been confirmed in Australia, the Health Minister of Victoria, Jenny Mikakos, announced Saturday afternoon.

A Chinese national has been isolated in a hospital in Melbourne, Victoria. The man, in his 50s and had spent two weeks in Wuhan, a city of 11 million people which has been the epicenter of the outbreak. He tested positive for the virus on Saturday morning.

He arrived in Melbourne on Jan. 19, but showed no symptoms on the flight to Melbourne, Mikakos said.

The Victorian health minister said the risk of transmission is low, but state and federal officials would be stationed at Melbourne airport, and a hotline will be set up for people seeking information about the virus.

“It is important to stress that there is no cause for alarm to the community. The patient is isolated and is undergoing treatment and we do not have any further suspected cases at this stage,” Mikakos told reporters.

New South Wales confirmed that five people are being tested for coronavirus, while two other people have been discharged after returning negative test results on Friday. Another two people in Queensland are being assessed for the virus.

NSW chief health officer Kerry Chant on Friday said that the five patients were in isolation. They do not pose a risk of transmitting the virus, she added.

“We’re encouraging people who have come back from Wuhan, or who have been in contact with confirmed cases in China or in other countries, to please seek care if you develop any symptoms of fever, sore throat, pneumonia, a cough or respiratory symptoms of any sort,” Chant said, according to AAP.

Currently, testing for the coronavirus takes about six hours, but the timeframe will likely be reduced in the future, she said.

No other cases of the novel coronavirus, dubbed 2019-nCoV, have been confirmed in other states other than Victoria as yet.

The death toll in China attributed to the coronavirus has risen to 41 after authorities confirmed at least 15 new deaths on Friday—a 60 percent increase from the previously announced death toll of 26.

The number of confirmed coronavirus cases patients in China now stands at 1,287, the National Health Commission said in a statement on Saturday.

Reuters and the AAP contributed to this report.