Baylor University student being tested for possible case of coronavirus 
 This is a developing story.
The Waco-McLennan County Public Health District is investigating whether a Baylor University student who recently traveled to China has contracted the new coronavirus that has erupted out of that country, the university confirmed Friday.
The university said that the student has been isolated in a room on campus as a precaution and that his residence hall — in particular, his dorm room — has been thoroughly cleaned.
“The student is being monitored by Baylor, state and local health officials," Baylor said in a news release. "The University also is working with the student to make sure needs are being met during the isolation period.”
A county health official could not say if the student had a roommate.
Tests for the virus were conducted Thursday and sent to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Waco health department said in a news release. The county is awaiting for results; it hasn’t been told when they might come.
“While the risk to the general public is low, the Health District is working to identify all those who may have come in contact with the suspected case,” the department said. “These individuals will be monitored for fever and respiratory symptoms if the case is positive.”
A county health official said that the student went to a health care facility when symptoms arose and that the facility notified the county once the student’s travel history was discovered.
The student has only mild symptoms of the virus, said Kelly Craine, public health information specialist for the health district. The county is working to determine how many contacts the student had before voluntarily isolating themselves, she said.
The department cannot release the name of the airport the student used to return to the U.S. but has notified the CDC, which is monitoring all direct flights to China, Craine said.
AirlinesFort Worth-based American Airlines said it is ready to take “aggressive actions" as the coronavirus spreads as flight attendants call for emergency measures to protect employees and passengers from the illness.

A spokesperson with the Texas Department of State Health Services said that a total of four individuals in the state have been tested for the new coronavirus. One possible case is at Texas AM University, where a student is awaiting test results, Brazos County health officials said Thursday.
One of the four tests in Texas came back negative, and the three others are pending, the department spokesperson said. The department declined to give locations for all four people.
The new strain of coronavirus was first detected in Wuhan, China earlier this month. It has since infected more than 800 people around the world in several countries including France, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. Twenty-six deaths have been reported, all of them in China.
The CDC on Tuesday confirmed the first U.S. case of the virus, a Seattle resident. A second case, in Chicago, was confirmed Friday. Both people had recently traveled from Wuhan.
People infected with the new strain of coronavirus have reported symptoms of fever, cough and shortness of breath. The CDC said symptoms can appear anywhere from two days to two weeks after exposure.
Cornaviruses are a large family of viruses that can cause a range of respiratory illnesses in people. A “novel” coronavirus is a strain that has not previously been seen in humans; it can infect both animals and people. Some strains, like Middle East respiratory illness, or MERS, and severe acute respiratory illness, or SARS, can originate in animals and later infect people.
The new strain may have originated from animals, as many of the first patients infected in China reported contact with animal and seafood markets, the CDC said.
After lengthy meetings this week, the World Health Organization declined to declare the outbreak a public health emergency for now. Meanwhile, Chinese officials have placed quarantines over large parts of the country to prevent the virus from spreading further.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.