Thermo guns essential for screening of travelers: Dr Zafar 
 Thermo guns essential for screening of travelers: Dr Zafar

ISLAMABAD: In addition to installation of thermo scanners, thermo guns should be made available for screening travelers arriving in Pakistan from countries infected by Novel Coronavirus. Moreover, a robust surveillance system at all 19 Ports of Entry should be activated before February 8, with quarantined areas.
Decisions to this effect were taken at a meeting convened here on Friday to take stock of the pre-emptive measures taken so far to avert the looming threat of Coronavirus; 890 cases and 26 deaths have been reported so far, with the disease largely concentrated in China. Exportations have also been reported now from Thailand, Singapore, Taiwan, Vietnam, the United States, Korea, and Japan.
With the Special Assistant to PM on Health Dr. Zafar Mirza in the chair, the meeting was attended by WHO Representative to Pakistan, Director General Health, Executive Director of the National Institute of Health (NIH), and heads of government hospitals and health institutions.
In addition to a beefed-up surveillance mechanism, all provincial Chief Ministers have been directed to notify a focal person to coordinate with Points of Entry staff and to manage suspected cases. “Special information stalls should be established in arrival lounges for information of travelers,” Dr. Zafar added amidst assurances that all possible measures are being taken to protect Pakistanis from the life-threatening disease. The meeting was informed that the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has been brought on board to handle an emergency situation, should the need arise.
Dr. Zafar directed that NIH should act as a hub for provision of updated information. While monitoring the working of the Emergency Operations Centre established in the Ministry of Health, he directed that a dedicated helpline be established by next week for dissemination of information about the disease to the general public and healthcare providers.
Dr. Zafar also reviewed measures being taken by hospitals to handle a possible emergency situation and stressed the need to accelerate public awareness and education related to symptoms of the disease, preparedness level, mitigation and response in case of emergency.
Meanwhile, the WHO has issued an advisory for international travelers, urging them to follow usual precautions. Since the transmission potential and modes of transmission of Coronavirus remain unclear, WHO believes “it would be prudent to reduce the general risk of acute respiratory infections while travelling in or from affected areas by: avoiding close contact with people suffering from acute respiratory infections, cough, and fever; performing frequent hand washing, especially after direct contact with ill people or their environment; avoiding close contact with live or dead farm or wild animals; practicing cough etiquettes during travel (maintaining distance, covering coughs and sneezes with disposable tissues or clothing, and washing hands) in case of symptoms of acute respiratory infection.”
Meanwhile, the Emergency Committee of the International Health Regulations (IHR) (2005), which believes that the Coronavirus outbreak does not presently constitute a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEI), will meet again within a week to review the situation. The Committee has, however, alerted that further exportation of cases may appear in any country. As such, “all countries should be prepared for containment including active surveillance, early detection, isolation and case management, contact tracing and prevention of onward spread of 2019-CoV infection, and to share full data with WHO,” states the advisory. According to the advisory, WHO does not recommend any specific health measures for travelers. “It is generally considered that entry screening offers little benefit while requiring considerable resources. In case of symptoms suggestive to respiratory illness before, during or after travel, travelers are encouraged to seek medical attention and share travel history with their healthcare provider,” it states.
As provided by the International Health Regulations (2005) (IHR), WHO has advised countries to ensure that:
-routine measures, trained staff, appropriate space and stockpile of adequate equipment are in place at Points of Entry for assessing and managing ill travelers detected before travel, on board conveyances (such as planes and ships) and on arrival at Points of Entry;
-procedures are in place for communicating information on ill travelers between conveyances and Points of Entry as well as between Points of Entry and national health authorities;
-safe transportation of symptomatic travelers to hospitals or designated facilities for clinical assessment and treatment is organized;
-a functional public health emergency contingency plan at Points of Entry is in place to respond to public health events.