Coronavirus case confirmed in Victoria 
 Australia's first case of coronavirus has been confirmed in Melbourne

Australia's first case of the deadly coronavirus has been confirmed in Victoria.

The state health minister Jenny Mikakos said a case of the respiratory condition had been confirmed in a man who last week arrived from China.

The man, a Chinese national in his 50s, tested positive for the virus on Saturday morning after visiting a GP on Thursday and going to hospital on Friday.

"There is no reason for alarm in the general community," Ms Mikakos said.

He had been in Wuhan, the city of 11 million people that has been the epicentre of the outbreak, before catching a flight to Melbourne from Guangzhou on January 19.

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade overnight raised the level of travel advice for Wuhan and Hubei province to "do not travel" while the disease is now listed as having "pandemic potential" allowing border measures to be enhanced.

Passengers arriving on all flights from China are now being stopped and provided with health information about the virus, its symptoms and what to do if they become unwell.

Australia's Chief Medical Officer Brendan Murphy said it was important for people arriving from Wuhan, and those in close contact with them, to monitor for symptoms including fever, cough, sore throat,vomiting and difficulty breathing.

Experts are still learning about the virus.

"We don't know exactly how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected but there is an incubation period and some patients will have very mild symptoms," Professor Murphy said.

China has confirmed 41 deaths from the virus, while more than 1000 people are now estimated to have been affected worldwide. Cases have been confirmed in 10 countries.

"We're confident that outside the major epicentre of China there is not yet evidence of significant, or any, human to human spread," Professor Murphy said.

Federal and state chief medical officers held joint discussions on Saturday morning and health ministers are expected to do the same in the afternoon.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison said the confirmation of a case in Australia had been anticipated and procedures are in place to manage the situation.

"I'd urge Australians to go about their day, go about their business in the knowledge that the professionals and the experts are there to provide the support that is needed in times like this are on the job and they're getting about it to keep you and your families safe," he said.

The infected man in Melbourne arrived on flight CZ321 from Guangzhou to Melbourne at around 9am on January 19.

He has pneumonia and is in a stable condition, being treated in a negative pressure isolation room.

Ms Mikakos said all passengers from the man's flight would be contacted out of precaution.

"He did not show any symptoms whilst he was on the fight so it's possible he wasn't contagious but there's a lot we don't know about this virus at this point," she said.

The man had been staying with family and had not been out and about, which minimised the risk to the broader community, she said.

He had also taken precautions by phoning ahead to the GP and hospital before attending and wearing a mask.