Doctor dies in Wuhan as coronavirus death toll, confirmed cases rise 
 A medical doctor suspected to have coronavirus died on Saturday in Hubei – marking the first death of a medical professional since the outbreak of the virus – as the number of confirmed cases in mainland China exceeded 1,000.
Liang Wudong, a surgeon at Xinhua Hospital in Hubei province, died at 7am at the age of 62, Shanghai-based news portal thepaper.cn reported.
Liang was suspected of being infected last week, before he was transferred to Wuhan’s Jinyintan Hospital for treatment.
China coronavirus: what you need to know
Some 29 provinces in China have reported 1,287 cases of the deadly pneumonia-like virus, with 729 in Hubei, the epicentre of the outbreak, according to data released by local governments on Saturday.
Hubei’s death toll was 39, with the other two fatalities in the provinces of Hebei and Heilongjiang.
Cases have also been reported in Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan and eight other countries.


Tens of millions of people in Hubei are effectively on lockdown as a travel ban has been imposed on most of the province.
Flights, trains, buses and ferries connecting Wuhan to other cities in Hubei have been suspended. Wuhan is the hub for several major high-speed rail lines.
Eighteen Chinese provinces have activated a top-level public health emergency response to the outbreak, meaning public events, businesses and schools can be suspended and the migrant population quarantined in these areas.
In Wuhan, video footage of people desperately seeking help was widespread on social media. Some nurses and doctors were reported to be suffering emotional breakdowns in hospital consulting rooms while outpatients crowd corridors with some pictured lying on the floor.
More than 20 hospitals in Wuhan have posted statements pleading for aid from various sectors as there has been a shortage of masks, latex gloves, protective goggles and surgical gowns.


Hubei has also tightened restrictions on private vehicles from Wuhan. A notice posted by a petrol station in Chibi, next to Wuhan, said all fuelling stations in the city were now off-limits to vehicles with Wuhan licence plates, on orders of the Chibi municipal government.
On Friday, China Development Bank granted a 2 billion yuan (US$288.3 million) emergency loan to Wuhan for virus prevention and treatment. On Thursday, China’s finance ministry announced an allocation of 1 billion yuan to be used by Hubei authorities to halt the contagion’s spread.

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

More from South China Morning Post:China coronavirus: Nepal reports first case of infection as virus reaches South AsiaWuhan coronavirus confirmed in 29 of China’s 31 provincesChina coronavirus: new cases confirmed in Singapore, Japan, South Korea and NepalChina sends in military doctors to help Wuhan hospitals fight coronavirus outbreakChina coronavirus: rush is on in Wuhan to build treatment centre for up to 1,000 patientsFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.