China coronavirus: doctor dies in Wuhan as death toll rises to 41 on mainland 
 A doctor suspected as having the coronavirus died on Saturday in the central Chinese province of Hubei – marking the first death of a medical professional since the outbreak of the virus – as the number of confirmed cases in mainland China exceeded 1,000.

Liang Wudong, a surgeon at Xinhua Hospital in Wuhan, died at 7am at the age of 62, Shanghai-based news portal Thepaper.cn reported.

Liang was suspected of being infected last week, before he was transferred to Wuhan’s Jinyintan Hospital for treatment.

Some 29 provinces in China have reported 1,287 cases of the deadly pneumonia-like virus, with 729 in Hubei, the epicentre of the outbreak, according to data released by local governments on Saturday.

Hubei’s death toll was 39, with the other two fatalities in the provinces of Hebei and Heilongjiang. About 180 new confirmed cases were reported in Hubei on Friday. In the southern autonomous region of Guangxi, two new confirmed cases were reported. One of the cases – the youngest so far – is a two-year-old girl who travelled from Wuhan to Hechi in Guangxi on January 22.

Cases have also been reported in Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan and eight other countries.

Tens of millions of people in Hubei are effectively on lockdown as a travel ban has been imposed on most of the province.

Flights, trains, buses and ferries connecting Wuhan to other cities in Hubei have been suspended. Rail authorities in Wuhan, the hub for several major high-speed rail lines, said operations at 61 stations and more than 400 train services in the province had been suspended until further notice, news site Jiemian reported.

Eighteen Chinese provinces have activated a top-level public health emergency response to the outbreak, meaning public events, businesses and schools can be suspended and the migrant population quarantined in these areas.

In Wuhan, video footage of people desperately seeking help was widespread on social media. Some nurses and doctors were reported to be suffering emotional breakdowns in hospital consulting rooms while outpatients crowd corridors, with some pictured lying on the floor.

More than 20 hospitals in Wuhan have posted statements pleading for aid as there has been a shortage of masks, latex gloves, protective goggles and surgical gowns.

Wuhan’s health commission said on Saturday that 10,000 beds at 24 hospitals had been set aside to treat patients, with 4,000 in use now and 6,000 more to be in place by the end of the month. More hospitals could be used as needed, it said.

Hubei has also tightened restrictions on private vehicles from Wuhan. A notice posted by a petrol station in Chibi, neighbouring Wuhan, said all fuelling stations in the city were now off-limits to vehicles with Wuhan licence plates, on orders of the Chibi municipal government.

In Shanghai, all cinemas have been shut down over the Lunar New Year holiday. City authorities have also cancelled marriage registrations scheduled for February 2 and asked couples not to join the annual rush for marriage registrations on February 14.

On Friday, China Development Bank granted a 2 billion yuan (US$288.3 million) emergency loan to Wuhan for virus prevention and treatment. On Thursday, China’s finance ministry announced an allocation of 1 billion yuan to be used by Hubei authorities to halt the contagion’s spread.

The People’s Liberation Army has deployed 450 military medical staff – some with experience fighting Ebola and severe acute respiratory syndrome, or Sars – to Wuhan from Shanghai, Chongqing.

The medical staff – specialists in respiratory health, infectious diseases, hospital infection control and intensive care – would form three teams of 150 people each, and be sent to hospitals with higher number of infected patients, state-run news agency Xinhua reported.

Hubei governor Jiang Chaoliang said on Friday that Wuhan must “make every effort” to increase isolation areas and beds.

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

This article China coronavirus: doctor dies in Wuhan as death toll rises to 41 on mainland first appeared on South China Morning Post

For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.