Coronavirus spreads in Australia: Four confirmed cases 
 There are now four confirmed cases of coronavirus in Australia.

Three patients in New South Wales and one in Victoria have caught the deadly disease which originated in Wuhan, China.

A Chinese national aged in his 50, who  initially showed no symptoms of the virus, travelled to Australia on China Southern Airlines from Wuhan via Guangzhou on January 19.

He has since become the first confirmed case of coronavirus in Australia and is now in quarantined isolation in a Melbourne hospital.

With a dozen more people being tested in Australia, authorities expected more people will be struck down with the dangerous virus in coming weeks as it threatens to become a global pandemic.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison released a statement on Saturday afternoon to authorities are now tracking down all passengers on the same flight as the affected passengers and anyone he was been in contact since.

The man arrived on China Southern Airlines flight CZ321 from Guangzhou, which arrived at Melbourne's Tullaramine Airport around 9.25am on January 19.

The plane he arrived on, an A380, carries more than 500 people.

He also announced the federal government has stepped up measures to protect Australians from the virus, along with a dire warning to not travel to China's Wuhan or Hubei provinces.

'From today (Saturday), anyone arriving in Australia on flights from other parts of China will be met and provided instruction on what to do it they have symptoms it start to develop them,' Mr Morrison's statement read.

'Chinese authorities have also imposed travel restriction sin at least five cities in the Hubei province.

'Australians travelling to these areas may not be able to leave until restrictions are lifted.

Mr Morrison added the federal government will continue to monitor the situation and take action when necessary.

In Melbourne, many CBD pharmacies are running out of protective face masks, which were already in huge demand due to the toxic haze from the state's bushfires that blanketing the city.

'I have been to nine pharmacies already, they're all out of them,' a Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology student originally from Shanghai told Reuters.

'And I need them, we all need them.'

However, health officials say the masks are not recommended.

'Face masks are not recommended for use by members of the public in Victoria for the prevention of infections like novel coronavirus,' the Victoria health department said in a statement.

Victoria Health Minister Jenny Mikakos told reporters on Saturday that the infected patient had been in Wuhan - the epicentre of the outbreak - for two weeks by himself.

'He was confirmed as positive after a series of tests early this morning,' Ms Mikakos said on Saturday.

Ms Mikakos said it was 'possible' the man wasn't contagious while on board as he didn't start showing symptoms until after arriving in Melbourne.

'We are now in the process of making contact with all the other passengers [on the flight],' she said.

'It is important to stress that there is no cause for alarm to the community.

In Queensland six people - including three from the Gold Coast - were being assessed for the virus, five of whom have no been given the all-clear.

Of six people being assessed in NSW, two are 'probable' cases, the state's health authority confirmed on Saturday.

NSW chief health officer Kerry Chant said the two men, aged between 30 and 60, were not particularly unwell but were being kept in hospital.

Both had travelled to China recently.

'As far as I know, they were not on the same flight,' Dr Chand said.

'The risk of transmission is still very, very low. But we felt it was prudent to take this precautionary approach.'

They are two of six people being assessed in NSW, with two others cleared on Friday.

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade overnight raised the level of travel advice for Wuhan and Hubei province to 'do not travel'.

The disease is listed as having 'pandemic potential', allowing border measures to be enhanced.

'The confirmation today by Victorian authorities of the coronavirus case was a matter that had been anticipated,' Mr Morrison said.

'The Australian government is of course taking this issue incredibly seriously.'

Passengers arriving on all flights from China are being stopped and given health information about the virus, its symptoms and what to do if they become unwell.

Australia's Chief Medical Officer Brendan Murphy said it was important for people arriving from Wuhan - and those in close contact with them - to monitor for symptoms including fever, cough, sore throat, vomiting and difficulty breathing.

Experts are still learning about the virus.

'We don't know exactly how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected but there is an incubation period and some patients will have very mild symptoms,' Prof Murphy said.

China has confirmed 41 deaths from the virus, while more than 1,000 people are now estimated to have been affected worldwide. Cases have been confirmed in 10 countries.

'We're confident that outside the major epicentre of China there is not yet evidence of significant, or any, human to human spread,' Prof Murphy said.

Federal and state chief medical officers held joint discussions on Saturday with health ministers expected to do the same.

Prime Minister Morrison said the confirmation of a case in Australia had been anticipated and procedures are in place to manage the situation.

'I'd urge Australians to go about their day, go about their business in the knowledge that the professionals and the experts are there to provide the support that is needed in times like this are on the job and they're getting about it to keep you and your families safe,' he said.

The infected man has pneumonia and is in a stable condition, being treated in a negative pressure isolation room.

Deputy Chief Health Officer Dr Angie Bone said the man felt tired after landing in Melbourne, before he started feeling ill later that day.

He then presented himself to a doctor on Thursday, four days after arriving in Australia.

'My understanding is he came off the plane and felt very tired and spent the next day resting in his room, towards the end of the day he developed symptoms,' Dr Bone said.

There is said to be little risk of him spreading the deadly virus in Melbourne, as he spent the last week with family and hasn't visited any public places since being in Australia.

'He stayed in his room as he was conscious he may have caught the disease, so his family didn't allow anyone in his room,' Dr Bone said.

'He has not been out and about, so I guess that minimises the risk to the broader community and he has taken all the appropriate precautions in terms of calling ahead to the GP clinic and to the hospital before he has presented on both of those occasions.

'So, he has done everything right. The family has done everything right to minimise the risk.

'There is a possibility the family may have caught the infection, we will be observing them very closely. It will help us understand how easy it is to transmit this virus.'

Dr Bone said the man wasn't a health care worker and may well have picked up the disease in a public setting.

'There's no evidence of human to human transmission here [in Australia]. It will be very hard to be specific about where people catch it from,' she said.

Transportation in Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak, and at least 12 nearby cities has been shut down, effectively placing 36 million people into lockdown.

So far more than 850 people have been infected in China while France has had three people test positive - the disease's first appearance in Europe.

Two cases, including a Chicago woman returning from China, have been confirmed in the United States.

CORONAVIRUS: WHAT WE KNOW SO FAR The virus has been identified as a new type of coronavirus. Coronaviruses are a large family of pathogens, most of which cause mild respiratory infections such as the common cold. But coronaviruses can also be deadly. SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, is caused by a coronavirus and killed hundreds of people in China and Hong Kong in the early 2000s. Yes. 41 people have so far died after testing positive for the virus.  Its symptoms are typically a fever, cough and trouble breathing, but some patients have developed pneumonia, a potentially life-threatening infection that causes inflammation of the small air sacs in the lungs. People carrying the novel coronavirus may only have mild symptoms, such as a sore throat. They may assume they have a common cold and not seek medical attention, experts fear. The virus's genetic sequencing was released by scientists in China to the rest of the world to enable other countries to quickly diagnose potential new cases. This helps other countries respond quickly to disease outbreaks. To contain the virus, airports are detecting infected people with temperature checks. But as with every virus, it has an incubation period, meaning detection is not always possible because symptoms have not appeared yet. How did it start and spread? The first cases identified were among people connected to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan. Cases have since been identified elsewhere which could have been spread through human-to-human transmission. What are countries doing to prevent the spread? Countries in Asia have stepped up airport surveillance. They include Japan, South Korea, Thailand, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia and Philippines. Australia and the US are also screening patients for a high temperature, and the UK announced it will screen passengers returning from Wuhan. Is it similar to anything we've ever seen before? Experts have compared it to the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). The epidemic started in southern China and killed more than 700 people in mainland China, Hong Kong and elsewhere SCROLL DOWN TO SEE MAILONLINE'S FULL Q&A ON THE CORONAVIRUS