Coronavirus outbreak: 56 million people on lockdown as China 'closes' 18 cities 
 An estimated 56million people are on lockdown in China to stop the coronavirus spreading, according to reports.

Public transport has also been closed across 18 cities in the country.

The death toll from China's coronavirus outbreak increased on Saturday to 41 from 26 a day earlier as the Lunar New Year got off to a gloomy start as travelling and public gatherings have been cancelled.



 More than 1,300 people have been infected globally with a virus traced to a seafood market in the central city of Wuhan that was illegally selling wildlife.

Health authorities around the world are scrambling to prevent a pandemic.

State-run China Global Television Network reported in a tweet on Saturday that a doctor who had been treating patients 

 in Wuhan, 62-year-old Liang Wudong, had died from the virus.

It was not immediately clear if his death was already counted in the official toll of 41, of which 39 were in the 

 central province of Hubei, where Wuhan is located.

U.S. coffee chain Starbucks said on Saturday that it was closing all its outlets in Hubei province for the week-long 

 Lunar New Year holiday, following a similar move by McDonald's in five Hubei cities.

Wuhan, a city with a population of 11 million, has been in virtual lockdown since Thursday, with nearly all flights at the airport cancelled and checkpoints blocking the main roads leading out of town.

Authorities have since imposed transport restrictions on nearly all of Hubei province, which has a population of 59 million.

In Beijing on Saturday, workers in white protective suits checked temperatures of passengers entering the subway at the 

 central railway station, while some train services in eastern China's Yangtze River Delta region were suspended, the local 

 railway operator said.

The number of confirmed cases in China stands at 1,287, the National Health Commission said on Saturday.

The virus has also been detected in Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Nepal, Malaysia, France, 

 the United States and Australia.

Australia on Saturday announced its first case of coronavirus, a Chinese national in his 50s, who had been in 

 Wuhan and arrived from China on Jan. 19 on a flight from Guangzhou.

He is in stable condition in a Melbourne hospital.

"Given the number of cases that have been found outside of China and the significant traffic from Wuhan city in the past to 

 Australia, it was not unexpected that we would get some cases," Australia's Chief Medical Officer Brendan Murphy told a news conference.

"This is the first confirmed case. There are other cases being tested each day, many of them are negative, but I wouldn't be surprised if we had further confirmed cases."

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Friday it had 63 patients under investigation, with two confirmed cases, both in people who had travelled to Wuhan.

Nepal has confirmed its first case of coronavirus, CNN reports.