Don’t Get Cold Feet: What's Best Thing You Can Do to Protect Yourself From New Coronavirus 
 The deadly coronavirus has claimed the lives of 26 people and infected more than 880 others in China after being detected in Wuhan in late December. The news about the new virus outbreak immediately caught the headlines evoking the memory of the fuss surrounding the African continent's Ebola epidemic that was later called disproportionate.

Dr Michael Curry, a clinical associate professor at the University of British Columbia’s Department of Emergency Medicine, explains that the Wuhan coronavirus is not something fundamentally new and while one needs to stay alert there's no need to go into full-blown panic mode.

Dr Curry recollects that the coronaviruses SARS and MERS (Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome) killed 10 and 36 percent of the people they infected, respectively.

The professor elaborates that the virus in question will most likely be "more dangerous to older people, people with other illnesses, and people with a compromised immune system".

Having said that coronaviruses are spread by droplets, Dr Curry recommends that the best thing one can do is wash one's hands and avoid touching one's face to prevent the virus from getting into one's respiratory passages. While there's a suggestion that coronaviruses may be airborne, it is still unclear whether the Wuhan virus can be spread that way, he notes.

"The most worrying thing is how fast this virus seems to be spreading", the academic stresses. "As of today, China is reporting 800 cases but with the virus having already spread to five countries I suspect way more than 800 people have been infected".

The good news, according to the professor, is that "outbreaks like this usually seem worse at the beginning than what they turn out to be".

Marion Koopmans, DVM, Ph.D., an expert on animal-related infections (zoonoses) at the Erasmus Medical Centre in the Netherlands, praises China's capability of detecting an endemic in its early stages, and containing outbreaks of diseases while they are still small.

Commenting on the origins of the new virus she notes that it most likely came from bats but possibly from other animals, at a market in Wuhan.

According to Koopmans, it still needs to be determined how exactly the infection spreads and "how easily it does that".

"It is clear that in some situations the virus can be transmitted between people and there is concern that the virus can spread further when the holiday season starts", she notes. "Some cases have been detected in travellers from Wuhan. From what we know so far, we know that people infected can have mild disease or more severe illness, with pneumonia that in some cases can be fatal".

While ten cities in China's Hubei Province officially announced the suspension of transport connections over the virus outbreak, the World Health Organisation (WHO) reported Thursday that it was too early to declare a global emergency over China's coronavirus (2019-nCoV).

The views and opinions expressed in the article do not necessarily reflect those of Sputnik.