Coronavirus - Overworked doctors wearing adult diapers because there's no time for toilet breaks 
 HOSPITAL staff at the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak are wearing adult diapers because they don't have time to use the toilet in between treating patients, it has been reported.

Wuhan, a city with about 11million people in the Hubei province, has been on lockdown since Thursday after it is believed the virus originated at meat market in December.

At least 56million people in 18 cities are now on lockdown in China as the virus killed 41 people in the country.

Distressing video and photos show how staff have been overwhelmed with the patients flooding into over-crowded hospitals.

One unverified video reportedly filmed by a nurse in a Wuhan hospital appears to show overcrowded hallways and staff in fully-protective body suits allegedly stepping over three dead bodies.

The nurse wrote that staff and patients were "stuck" with the bodies, which are covered by white sheets, because no one is available to take them away.

Overworked medical staff are also wearing diapers because they don't have time to use the toilet and others do so because they fear ripping off their hazmat suits when supplies are already so low, the Washington Post reported.

A Wuhan Union Hospital doctor who identified himself as Mr Do on Weibo wrote: "We know that the protective suit we wear could be the last one we have, and we can’t afford to waste anything."

The US newspaper also reported how an infectious disease specialist who died of a heart attacked while treating patients.

Jiang Jijun had treated the bird flu and influenza outbreaks in the past.

A nurse, who is seven-months-pregnant, still turned up to work to help treat patients, but ended up getting infected herself.

At least 41 people have died from the virus while confirmed cases have skyrocketed to more than 1,200 in China, state media said.

Authorities in Wuhan, the ground zero of the outbreak, announced yesterday they were building a 1,000-bed hospital in a matter of days.

Images shows constructions workers and machinery breaking ground to lay the foundation that will resemble the makeshift hospital erected in 2003 during the SARS outbreak.

At least 56million people in 18 cities in China have been placed on lockdown.

Chinese authorities have also scrapped Lunar New Year celebrations, which is today, across the country.

Popular tourist attractions such as Shanghai's Disneyland, the Badling section of the Great Wall of Chine and the Forbidden City are closed today.

Police, SWAT teams and paramilitary troops have been out on the streets in Wuhan patrolling the railway stations as authorities have banned travelling on subways and ferries.

And with the virus spreading all over the world questions are being asked about how local authorities in Wuhan dealt with the outbreak in recent weeks.

The central Chinese city, bigger than London, is the epicentre of the crisis with the virus believed to have originated from snakes at a live animal market in December.

Last week, it emerged that the bug can be passed from human to human – yet authorities in Wuhan only locked down its transport links on Thursday.

Social media users in the city blasted authorities on Weibo for waiting weeks to put the metropolis on lockdown.

One said: "It’s been a month since the first case was discovered and only now do they think of closing the city? This Wuhan emergency response is a little slow, right???"

Another added: "The government needs to address this. If things become too expensive, people will definitely panic and when people feel unsafe, terrible things happen. Right now people are fighting over supplies, soon they may just be fighting.”

It is unusual of citizens to express such outrage at the Chinese government on the country's microblogging site.

Residents 14 cities in the Hubei province, which is where the epicentre of the outbreak, have been banned from travelling, according to state-run Global Times.

Seven million people in Huanggang have been told not to leave after there were confirmed cases.

And at least one million residents in Ezhou are unable to travel after the rail stations were shut.

Suspended transport services have been put into effect in the smaller cities of Xiantao, Zhijiang, Qianjiang, Chibi, Jingmen, Xianning, Huangshi (including Daye City, Yangxin County), Dangyang, Enshi, Yichang and Xiaogan.

In Zhijiang city, all public venues have been shut down except hospitals, supermarkets, farmers' market, gas stations and drug stores, Hubei Daily reported.

Indoor entertainment venues in Enshi city have also been shut down, it said.

Coronavirus is an airborne virus, spread in a similar way to colds and the flu. Symptoms include a runny nose, headache, cough and fever, shortness of breath, chills and body aches. It is incredibly contagious and is spread through contact with anything the virus is on as well as infected breath, coughs or sneezes. Symptoms include a runny nose, headache, cough and fever, shortness of breath, chills and body aches. In most cases, you won't know whether you have a coronavirus or a different cold-causing virus, such as rhinovirus. But if a coronavirus infection spreads to the lower respiratory tract (your windpipe and your lungs), it can cause pneumonia, especially in older people, people with heart disease or people with weakened immune systems. There is no vaccine for coronavirus. In 2003 an outbreak of a similar virus, SARS, infected more than 8,000 people in 37 countries before it was brought under control, killing 800 of those worldwide.