Photos from the Lunar New Year show how coronavirus turned China's biggest party into a washout 
 The novel coronavirus outbreak in China began in tandem with a significant holiday in the Chinese culture: the Lunar New Year.

Parts of China went under unprecedented quarantine in hopes to stem the spread of the deadly disease, known as 2019-nCoV, affecting around 35 million people in the country.

The Lunar New Year celebration traditionally calls for parades, outdoor festivals, and lanterns throughout the city, as people gather with their families to celebrate the annual holiday.

However, in light of the Wuhan coronavirus that has killed 41 and infected nearly 1,300 in China alone, cities around the country are forced to cancel one of the most important cultural events of the year.

Here are photos comparing last year's celebration — complete with Chinese lions, historical dances, and family time — to this year:

Thomas Peter/Reuters2020: Ditan Park is eerily empty as workers took down the lantern decorations after the Lunar New Year celebration was cancelled.

Carlos Garcia Rawlins/Reuters2019: Signs with the Chinese character "Fu," which means "Good luck," hang in the Forbidden City.

Jason Lee/Reuters2020: Doctors hold up the same sign in the hospital while treating coronavirus patients.

THE CENTRAL HOSPITAL OF WUHAN VIA WEIBO via Reuters2019: Folk artists perform a traditional lion dance.

Reuters2020: A Chinese tourist wearing a mask is flanked by two lions at Suvarnabhumi Airport in Thailand.

Soe Zeya Tun/Reuters2019: Tourists can be seen in the Forbidden City during the Lunar New Year. Jason Lee/Reuters2020: Police wearing masks stand in front of the Tiananmen Gate outside of the Forbidden City. Carlos Garcia Rawlins/Reuters2019: Passengers traveling for the Lunar New Year pack into the Hengyang Railway Station. Stringer/Reuters2020: Passengers are getting screened for the coronavirus at the Hangzhou Railway Station. China Daily via Reuters2019: Performers are seen outside a temple after re-enacting a Chinese New Year Qing Dynasty ceremony. Temple of Earth in Ditan Park in Beijing, China lunar new year Thomas Peter/Reuters2020: People stand outside the gate of a temple that was closed for safety concerns following the coronavirus outbreak. Carlos Garcia Rawlins/Reuters2019: A woman prays with incense in her hands. Jorge Silva/Reuters2020: Two men, one of whom is wearing a mask, do the same. China spent the crucial first days of the Wuhan coronavirus outbreak arresting people who posted about it online and threatening journalists Photos show how China is grappling with the Wuhan coronavirus outbreak as 12 cities are quarantined and hospitals run out of space As the Wuhan virus spreads, doctors in the city say they face a 'flooding' of patients and not enough protective gear