Wuhan Zombieland: Videos Reportedly Show Coronavirus-Infected People Collapsing On Streets 
 As Chinese authorities have put Wuhan, the capital of China’s Hubei province, in quarantine, disturbing videos on social media show infected people falling like zombies, on the streets. 
 YouTube/TikTok
Videos that have been circulating on platforms like TikTok and YouTube, show medics in hazmat suits and gas masks rushing to tend to people sprawled in the streets,  motionless. 

VIDEO

The new virus started in the city of Wuhan in China causing pneumonia-like illness, and has been rapidly spreading across the world. 

The virus has also been detected in Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Nepal, France and the United States. Thailand has five cases, Singapore and Taiwan three, Japan, Vietnam, South Korea and the United States have each reported two cases, and Nepal one.
 

In India, a total of 11 people have been kept under observation for possible exposure to coronavirus infection - three in Mumbai, seven in Kerala and one in Hyderabad. 
In this video below, an infected man who was wearing a protective mask - was waiting in line for paperwork when he lost consciousness and collapsed. 


Residents in the 'ground-zero' city - where the virus originated - have been told to avoid crowds and not to attend public gatherings; the entire city is on lockdown. Wuhan shut down all transportation in the city, which is home to over 11 million people. 


Coronaviruses are common in animals of all kinds, and sometimes can evolve into forms that can infect humans. Some reports state that Wuhan coronavirus is believed to have emerged from illegally traded wildlife at a seafood market, with experts suggesting the virus was passed to humans from snakes or wolf cubs.
The death toll due to the new coronavirus outbreak mounted to 41 in China. Reports state that just three of the 41 deaths took place outside China's Wuhan, and the rest have happened at ground zero itself. 
According to the National Post, number of confirmed cases in mainland China rose to more than 800, as of January 23. 
   
“Make no mistake, this is an emergency in China, but it has not yet become a global health emergency,” Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the WHO’s director-general, said in a press briefing recently.  

The deadly virus has now infected more than 1,000 people globally, posing a bigger challenge for health authorities around the world who're working to prevent a global pandemic. There is no cure for the new virus or vaccine to prevent it, and the National Institutes of Health in China says research to develop a vaccine could take months or maybe years.