Surgeon accused of performing unnecessary shoulder operations on over 200 patients 
 MORE than 200 private patients of an orthopaedic surgeon have been recalled over concerns about operations he performed.Habib Rahman is alleged to have performed unnecessary or inappropriate shoulder surgeries at Spire Parkway Hospital in Solihull, West Midlands, lawyers said.

2

 Habib Rahman is alleged to have performed unnecessary or inappropriate shoulder surgeries on more than 200 patientsCredit: BPM Media
2

 Spire Healthcare is inviting patients to get a second opinionCredit: PA:Press Association
Some 217 private patients have been asked to have a follow-up with an independent surgeon "to review their care and to understand more about their post-operative recovery", said Spire Healthcare.

The private provider restricted his practice in September 2018 following concerns, before suspending it in January last year.

Spire then withdrew his operating licence in May following a review by the Royal College of Surgeons.

 

Sex Secrets
 Prostitute who earns £2,000 a week reveals the average penis size ... and how much she enjoys work 

KNOW THE SYMPTOMS OF CANCER
 Dr Keith Hopcroft explains the ten signs that suggest you DON'T have cancer 

ITCH YOU CAN'T SCRATCH
 From STIs to chafing, what your itchy testicles REALLY mean (and when you should be worried) 

TOO MUCH OF A GOOD THING
 From spinach to tuna, these 9 foods are TOXIC if you overindulge - but how much is too much? 

Drugs warning
 Here’s what taking the odd line of coke REALLY does to your body... and it might surprise you 

toothy truth
 Your dentist gives each tooth a number - and here’s what they could mean for your health 







A Spire spokesman said: "Following the Royal College's guidance, we wrote to all shoulder patients who were identified as requiring follow-up to offer them a consultation with an independent surgeon to review their care and to understand more about their post-operative recovery.

"That process is still ongoing.

"We would encourage patients who have received a letter to follow up on our offer of a free review by an independent specialist to ensure their care has been as expected."


WHO convenes Emergency Committee on new coronavirus confirms the virus can be spread via human to human transmission