China coronavirus: Hong Kong schools to remain closed for an extra two weeks 
 Hong Kong pupils and students will get two more weeks of holiday during the Lunar New Year amid the widening threat of an outbreak from new Wuhan coronavirus, the Post can reveal.
Most kindergarten, primary and secondary schools in the city were supposed to return on February 3, but the extension means they will now not return until February 17.
The move, aimed at reducing the risk of the virus spreading among local communities, is expected to be announced by Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor, who returned to the city on Saturday morning to lead the fight against the virus.
As of Friday, five confirmed cases of the coronavirus infection had been identified in Hong Kong. All patients had been to Wuhan, the epicentre in mainland China.
Critics argued the administration was slow to stop infected mainland Chinese travellers from entering the border. Four out of five patients confirmed with the new virus arrived by high-speed rail, where a form asking travellers to declare their health was only imposed on Thursday.
Lam returned to Hong Kong early on Saturday morning after a week at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland where she promoted the city as remaining open to business to world and corporate leaders.
Meanwhile, Macau officials announced on Friday morning that the Lunar New Year holiday should be extended by a week for all schools except higher institutions until February 10, as it also urged private institutions to follow similar arrangements. Some 10 higher education institutions also said they would extend the holiday until February 11.
Top microbiologist Yuen Kwok-yung of the University of Hong Kong on Saturday warned the new coronavirus could be highly infectious and this was Hong Kong’s last window to stop the outbreak from the border.
“Hong Kong or Macau or other world cities could easily become another Wuhan or another 2003 Hong Kong,” Yuen said in an online message, referring to the SARS outbreak in 2003 that killed 200 people, including eight medical staff.
Pro-democracy camp lawmakers and medical sector legislator Pierre Chan Pui-yin had earlier urged the government to stop traffic to and from Wuhan.
According to the MTR Corporation, two high-speed trains a day – one coming from Beijing and one from Tianjin – would pass through Wuhan on their way to Shenzhen.
The railway giant said on Thursday the trains would stop only to allow passengers to get off.
There had also been no flights from Wuhan to Hong Kong since the mainland city was put on a lockdown on Thursday morning.
More from South China Morning Post:China coronavirus: three new cases in Hong Kong, increasing total number to fiveChina coronavirus: pressure mounts on Hong Kong Education Bureau to suspend classes after Lunar New Year holiday to safeguard students, teachersWuhan coronavirus: Cathay Pacific offers refunds on all mainland China flights until end of February, as Hong Kong’s tour agents cancel bookingsChina coronavirus: Hong Kong scraps major Lunar New Year celebrations and extends health declaration requirements as it tightens monitoring of deadly infectionFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.