Ex-bikie says virus is 'Allah's revenge' for persecution of Muslims 
 A convicted killer has claimed the coronavirus sweeping across the world is 'Allah's revenge' for China's persecution of millions of Muslims.

Retired Nomads president Moudi Tajjour took to Snapchat saying Allah 'created' the killer virus which has killed 41 around the world and infected at least four in Australia.

'China has imprisoned more than one million Muslims in detention, so Allah sheds a virus that has not been discovered yet,' the 35-year-old wrote.

'It has isolated four cities with a population of more than 20 million Chinese.'

He then goes on to cite a verse from the Quran, 'And you are unaware of what they going to do.'

'Allah is great, never forgot this.'

United Nations experts and rights groups estimate more than a million Uighurs and members of other ethnic groups have been detained in camps in China's far western region of Xinjiang, which has triggered international condemnation.

China says the camps are vocational training centres to impart new skills and help root out and prevent extremism.

Former detainees claimed that Muslims were forced to eat pork and speak Mandarin in those internment camps.

After initially denying their existence, China acknowledged that it had opened 'vocational education centres' in Xinjiang aimed at preventing extremism by teaching Mandarin and job skills.

Tajjour, who was jailed over the 2006 manslaughter of Robin Nassour, the younger brother of Fat Pizza star George, was the youngest ever member to join the Nomads ranks in the late-1990s.

After leaving school in Year 8 he joined the Nomads as a 'nominee', but had to wait 16 months before becoming a fully fledged member.

Corona virus is sweeping the world after it was detected in December.

Three patients in New South Wales and one in Victoria have caught the deadly disease which originated in Wuhan.

The patient in Victoria is a Chinese national aged in his 50s who flew to Melbourne on China Southern flight CZ321 from Wuhan via Guangzhou on January 19.

He became the first confirmed case of coronavirus in Australia on Saturday morning and is now in quarantined isolation at Monash Hospital in Clayton in Melbourne's east.

Two men, one in his 30s and one in his 50s, are being treated at Sydney's Westmead Hospital, NSW Health confirmed on Saturday night.

The age of the fourth victim has not been confirmed.