EU CIVIL WAR: France and Germany row erupts over Macron 'wasting £84m' of bloc funds 
 Emmanuel Macron was accused of wasting €100million (£84million) of European taxpayers' money to prop up his own “European vanity projects”. German international broadcaster Deutsche Welle’s (DW) Tim Sebastian told key Macron ally and leading MEP Nathalie Loiseau that France’s demand to have the European Parliament move once a month to Strasbourg was damaging the environment and wasting millions of euros a year. Ms Loiseau responded by claiming that Germany was equally guilty of wasting money on European vanity projects by housing the European Central Bank in Frankfurt.

This sparked a tense war of words, as Mr Macron’s record in EU came under scrutiny.
The DW host said: “If you were serious about the environment you would halt this incredibly wasteful process of convening the European Parliament once a month in Strasbourg and the rest of the time in Brussels.
“At the moment, this is hugely damaging to the environment and hugely costly to the European taxpayer, but it’s France’s vanity project, isn’t it?”
Ms Loiseau responded: “It’s in the treaties. And it’s Germany’s vanity project to have the European Central Bank in Frankfurt, and Luxembourg’s to have premises in Luxembourg."
JUST IN: Oh dear, Emmanuel! Crisis for Macron as support PLUMMETS

Sebastian fired back: “But the whole European Bank doesn’t get up like a travelling circus once every month at the cost of €100million (£84million) a year.”
The MEP said: “There is also a cost for EU premises in Germany, in Luxembourg and other places in Europe. Do you want Eurocrats to stay in the Brussels bubble? Is that what citizens have been voting for?”
The TV host said: “Please go to Strasbourg once a month, they are not telling you that, are they?"
Sebastian also questioned why anyone in the EU should listen to the French President’s ideas for reform when he “can’t even pass reforms in his own country”.

He pointed out that Macron has tried to start up a European climate bank, a council of interior security as well as reforms in immigration and trade. 
Sebastian said: "Time after time, the response from EU was a resounding silence."
Ms Loiseau hit back at this claim, saying: "You are obviously very anti-Macron. I thought you were meant to be a fair journalist."
DON'T MISS
Brussels plot to punish Boris over UK's refusal to surrender EU fisheries exposed [VIDEO]
Astonishing moment Emily Thornberry backs Tory post-Brexit policy [VIDEO]
Coronavirus: Now TEN cities locked down as masks become mandatory [LIVE BLOG]

She also denied that France had descended into chaos, despite months of violent protest and strike disruption.
France has been badly affected by strikes and nationwide protests against the government, but the former minister for European Affairs Nathalie Loiseau defended President Emmanuel Macron by saying he has been reforming the country "with a steady path."
Sebastian rebutted: “People have died on the streets. There has been tear gas and riot police. Some of the worst transport disruption in the 1960s."
The MEP for the for the liberal Renew Europe group said: "There is no strike anymore in railways or public transportation and there will be the most ambitious pension system reform for decades.”