Coronavirus panic at Brit uni as 'students from virus ground zero Wuhan go raving in Cambridge hours after landing' 
 CHINESE students Wuhan - the epicentre of the coronavirus - went clubbing in Cambridge this week as British universities warn students of the deadly virus, it has been reported.

The 15 undergraduate students from Wuhan College attended lectures and talks at the University of Cambridge this week as part of a nine-day programme.

They flew from Wuhan before the city was placed on lockdown as authorities desperately trying to contain the virus that has already killed 41.

It is understood the students spent time in student bars and clubs in the Cambridge city centre at night.

The students from in Wuhan were hosted by the university's Jesus College from January 13 to 22, The Tab reported.

The college has since emailed students saying: "You may be aware that the College recently played host to a group of visiting students from Wuhan College.

"I can reassure you that none of our visitors exhibited any symptoms of WNC during their time here."

Jesus College wrote on their Instagram on Wednesday: "The students also love the student night out with our JCSU last night!"

Cambridge University has also emailed students on advice regarding the coronavirus.

British universities have warned students considering travelling to China celebrate the Lunar New Year that they are at risk of being quarantined when they come back.



Universities are closely monitoring the outbreak as the vice-chancellors’ group Universities UK said: “Ensuring the safety and welfare of their students is a top priority for universities.

"UK universities have been monitoring the coronavirus situation as it unfolds and universities with students in affected areas are working to identify appropriate actions.

“Universities will continue to follow the latest FCO advice and to monitor the situation, which is evolving rapidly.”

And with the virus spreading all over the world questions are being asked about how local authorities in Wuhan dealt with the outbreak in recent weeks. The central Chinese city, bigger than London, is the epicentre of the crisis with the virus believed to have originated from snakes at a live animal market in December. Last week, it emerged that the bug can be passed from human to human – yet authorities in Wuhan only locked down its transport links on Thursday.

It come as 19 new potential coronavirus cases emerged yesterday in the UK.

Fourteen other people previously tested have been given the all-clear.

Three cases were confirmed in France yesterday, the first in Europe. One case was also last night confirmed in Melbourne in Australia.

A 48-year-old man is in hospital in the south-western city of Bordeaux. The other case is in Paris.

Authorities say the number of confirmed infections in China has risen to 1,287, with 41 deaths. The youngest victim is believed to be 36.

The World Health Organisation has declared snake flu an “emergency in China” but stopped short of declaring it a global one.

British experts estimate up to 350,000 people could be infected in Wuhan alone within days.

Public events such as temple fairs, a staple of the celebrations, have been cancelled.

In Wuhan, karaoke bars, cinemas and internet cafes were shut with shelves stripped bare by shoppers.

McDonald’s suspended business in five cities in Hubei.

Meanwhile officials in Wuhan - the ground zero of the outbreak - have vowed to build a 1,000-bed hospital for infected patients in just five days.

Dozens of diggers and trucks were pictured yesterday already clearing the land.