To Treat Coronavirus Patients, China Is Constructing A 1,000-Bed Hospital In Wuhan In A Week 
 The engineering capabilities of the Chinese are legendary. They have built some of the most daring bridges and towers in some of the most challenging circumstances that to in record time. But this time around the Chinese is doing something that is quite literally unheard of. 
In the city of Wuhan, the epicenter of the deadly coronavirus outbreak the Chinese is building a new 1000 bed hospital. And according to the Chinese state media, they aim to complete the construction in just six days. 
 REUTERS
On Friday, Reuters citing Chinese state media had reported that the hospital will be built within a week. Now pictures and videos have emerged showing the massive scale of the constriton.
   
According to reports, the brand new hospital is being constructed with prefabricated buildings around a holiday complex originally intended for local workers. 
 The facility will be a prefabricated structure on a 270,000-square-foot lot, slated for completion February 3, Wuhan authorities said on Friday. Building machinery, including 35 diggers and 10 bulldozers, arrived at the Wuhan site on Thursday night.
 AFP
The works are led by China State Construction Engineering one of the largest construction companies in the world and have a reputation for finishing massive buildings in record time. 


 AFP
While it sounds unbelievable to many, others point out that China had similar things in the past. In 2003 during the SARS outbreak, China had built a hospital in Beijing from scratch in six days. 

The Xiaotangshan SARS hospital was built to treat an outbreak of a similar respiratory virus that had spread from China to more than a dozen countries and killed about 800 people. The hospital featured individual isolation units that looked like rows of tiny cabins. About 4,000 people had worked day and night to construct the hospital on time, which also set the world record for the fastest construction of a hospital. 
 AFP
This comes at a time when hospitals in Wuhan were grappling with a flood of patients and a lack of supplies. Videos circulating online showed throngs of frantic people in masks lined up for checks. Some users on the Weibo social media site said their family members had sought diagnoses but were turned away at hospitals that were at capacity. So far there have been around 1,200 confirmed cases of Coronavirus in China and 41 deaths, mostly in Wuhan. 

At least eight hospitals in Wuhan issued public calls for donations of masks, goggles, gowns and other protective medical gear, according to notices online. Administrators at Wuhan University People’s Hospital set up a group chat on the popular WeChat messaging app to coordinate donations.