Coronavirus - Terrified Wuhan residents 'abandoned to catch bug' as total lockdown is ordered in city of 11 million 
 RESIDENTS in Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak of the deadly coronavirus, fear they will all be infected after being placed on lockdown.

The city in the Hubei province is home to 11million people and haven't been able to leave since Thursday as authorities desperately try to stop the spread to the virus that has already killed 41.

A father living in Wuhan said they are "all trapped" and fears he and his family will all get the virus if they don't leave the city.

The man, who did not want to be identified, is not Chinese and said he is part of an international community who are "panicked".

The father told the MaiOnline: "Due to the recent lock down, we all are trapped now. I also have a baby.

"The situation is very serious here. If they keep everyone inside Wuhan I am afraid we all shall get infected."

He said the government is telling residents to stay home through online channels and the TV.

He added: "People are panicked. It is advised by the government and university authorities not to go out, stay at home and call a hospital in case of having any symptoms.

"Everyone is panicked and wants to flee the China and go back to their countries or at least to move to a safer city in China."

The man also said that after government announced a travel ban that people rushed to the markets to buy food.

The Chinese government scrapped Lunar New Year celebrations in a bid to stop the virus from spreading.

Major tourist attractions such as Shanghai's Disneyland theme park, the Badling section of the Great Wall of China and the Forbidden City in Beijing have also been closed.

The closures come as 18 cities in China have been put on lockdown, which affects 56million people.

Seven million people in Huanggang have been told not to leave and at least one million residents in Ezhou are unable to travel after the rail stations were shut.

Transport services have been suspended in the smaller cities of Xiantao, Zhijiang, Qianjiang, Chibi, Jingmen, Xianning, Huangshi (including Daye City, Yangxin County), Dangyang, Enshi, Yichang and Xiaogan.

In Zhijiang city, all public venues were shut down except for hospitals, supermarkets, farmers' markets, gas stations and drug stores, Hubei Daily reported.

Indoor entertainment venues in Enshi city were also closed, it said.

There are more than 1,300 cases globally, but a new report produced by Lancaster University in England, the University of Florida and the University of Glasgow says only five per cent of all the coronavirus cases are being diagnosed.

Dr Jonathan Read, a biostatistics researcher at Lancaster, wrote to colleagues he that by February 4 modelling shows the number of infected people in Wuhan to be greater than 250,000 - but could hit 351,396.

“If no change in control or transmission happens, then we expect further outbreaks to occur in other Chinese cities, and that infections will continue to be exported to international destinations at an increasing rate” he wrote.

“We predict the cities with the largest outbreaks elsewhere in China to be Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou, Chongqing and Chengdu.

“We also predict that by 4 Feb 2020, the countries or special administrative regions at greatest risk of importing infections through air travel are Thailand, Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and South Korea.”

Beijing is responding to the rapid spread of the virus by building a 1,000-bed hospital dedicated to patients with coronavirus.

Pictures show construction diggers moving earth to lay the foundation for the hospital that officials say will be completed by February 3.

Residents in the "ground-zero" city, where the virus originated, have been told to avoid crowds and not to attend public gatherings leaving the streets looking like a ghost town - despite its 11 million population.

Other images online show a sea of people wearing masks crowding a corridor in a hospital as they wait to see a doctor.

Images online, posted by shoppers, show supermarket shelves lying empty after panic buying by worried locals.