Coronavirus 'could hit all UK cities' expert warns after 14 people tested 
 A professor has warned there are likely to be 'many coronvirous cases' across the UK as 14 people have been tested for the deadly illness in Britain.

Five people were tested in Edinburgh and Glasgow yesterday, two of which have since been confirmed not to be infected with the virus.

They all travelled to Scotland from Wuhan - where the outbreak is thought to have originated - within the past two weeks and are showing symptoms of respiratory trouble, a red flag for the virus.

Health officials have teamed up with Border Force agents and airlines to try to track down 2,000 people who have recently flown into the UK from Wuhan.

So far, tests on 14 people in the UK have come back negative.

The Department of Health and Social Care have confirmed: "There are currently no confirmed cases in the UK or of UK citizens abroad, and the risk to the public is low.

"The government is monitoring the situation closely and will continue to work with the World Health Organization (WHO) and international community."

Following reports of people being tested in Sctoland the head of infection medicine at the University of Edinburgh, Professor Jurgen Haas, said he believes there will be cases in "many other cities" in the UK.

Prof Haas said the cases in Scotland came in over Thursday night, adding: "The situation will be pretty similar in pretty much all UK cities with a large number of Chinese students.

"It's not too surprising. My suspicion is that there will probably be many more cases in many other cities in the UK.

"None of the cases I know of have been confirmed."

He said there is only one laboratory testing for the virus, operated by Public Health England (PHE).

The professor said the cases have been flagged up through the PHE infection guidelines as they travelled to Wuhan within the last 14 days and are showing signs of respiratory symptoms.

The disease has killed at least 26 and affected more than 1,300 across the world.

The Chinese Government has effectively locked down Wuhan, cancelling planes and trains there and in the nearby city of Huanggang.

First Minister Nicola Sturgeon was questioned about the risk to people in Scotland at First Minister's Questions at the Scottish Parliament on Thursday.

She said the situation is being closely monitored, adding: "I should say, that the risk to the public here in Scotland - and indeed the UK - is currently classified as low but that is kept under review."