US prepares to evacuate its citizens and diplomats from Wuhan 
 The US government is planning to evacuate citizens from the coronavirus-stricken Chinese city of Wuhan.

The United States is arranging a charter flight on Sunday to bring its citizens and diplomats back from Wuhan.

The city, which has a population of around 11 million, is considered the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak, and has been placed effectively placed on lockdown since Thursday.

Roughly 1,000 American citizens are thought to be in Wuhan.

The Boeing 767 jet, which carries around 230 people, will carry diplomats from the US consulate as well as US citizens and their families, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing a person familiar with the operation.

It is understood medical personnel will be on the flight to care for anyone who may have been infected by the virus and prevent it from spreading.

Washington was given approval for the operation from China's Foreign Ministry and other government agencies following negotiations in recent days.

The US also plans to temporarily shut its Wuhan consulate, it said.

It is not yet clear whether the UK and other countries will take similar steps to evacuate their citizens from the city.

In response to a request for comment from MailOnline, the Foreign Office said: 'We are monitoring the situation in China very closely. If there are any developments, this will be updated via FCO travel advice on GOV.UK.'

It comes as the death toll for the coronavirus in China rose to 41 on Saturday.

More than 1,300 people have been infected globally with the virus traced to a seafood market in the central city of Wuhan that was illegally selling wildlife.

Coronavirus: What we know so far  The virus has been identified as a new type of coronavirus. Coronaviruses are a large family of pathogens, most of which cause mild respiratory infections such as the common cold. But coronaviruses can also be deadly. SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, is caused by a coronavirus and killed hundreds of people in China and Hong Kong in the early 2000s. Yes. Seventeen people have so far died after testing positive for the virus. What are the symptoms? Its symptoms are typically a fever, cough and trouble breathing, but some patients have developed pneumonia, a potentially life-threatening infection that causes inflammation of the small air sacs in the lungs. People carrying the novel coronavirus may only have mild symptoms, such as a sore throat. They may assume they have a common cold and not seek medical attention, experts fear. The virus's genetic sequencing was released by scientists in China to the rest of the world to enable other countries to quickly diagnose potential new cases. This helps other countries respond quickly to disease outbreaks. To contain the virus, airports are detecting infected people with temperature checks. But as with every virus, it has an incubation period, meaning detection is not always possible because symptoms have not appeared yet. How did it start and spread? The first cases identified were among people connected to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan. Cases have since been identified elsewhere which could have been spread through human-to-human transmission. What are countries doing to prevent the spread? Countries in Asia have stepped up airport surveillance. They include Japan, South Korea, Thailand, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia and Philippines. Australia and the US are also screening patients for a high temperature, and the UK announced it will screen passengers returning from Wuhan. Is it similar to anything we've ever seen before? Experts have compared it to the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). The epidemic started in southern China and killed more than 700 people in mainland China, Hong Kong and elsewhere