Which Chinese New Year Zodiac animal are you? 
 Happy Chinese New Year – or xīn nián kuài lè if you wanted to show off.

As people all over celebrate Spring Festival today, 25 January, it officially becomes the Year of the Rat under the Chinese calendar.

The Chinese Zodiac is based on a 12-year cycle calculated according to the Chinese lunar calendar, with each year in a cycle related to an animal sign. Much like astrological star signs, the Chinese Zodiac animal has attributes and significance attached.

Want to know yours? We’ve got you covered…

Traits: People born under the Year of the Rat are thought to be quick-witted and resourceful. In Chinese culture, rats represent hard-workers and thriftiness.

Traits: Those born in the Year of the Ox are said to be strong and determined, with typically conservative characteristics.

Traits: If you’re born under the Year of the Tiger, you’re thought to be brave, confident and charming – but also stubborn and impetuous.

Traits: Those born on a Year of the Rabbit are thought to be elegant, quiet and patient.

Traits: Dragons are typically ambitious and intelligent, and those born under a Dragon year are thought to make great leaders. However, they can be a hot-headed and arrogant.

Traits: If you’re a born Snake, you’re thought to be enigmatic and intuitive. You can be quite withdrawn, but are said to be wise and deliberate.

Traits: People born under a Horse year are active, energetic and love to be in groups. A Horse can lack self-confidence though, so love to follow the crowd.

Traits: Said to be gentle and shy with a strong sense of justice and kindness.

Traits: Fast-learners, witty and magnetic, Monkeys also have the tendency to be mischievous and haughty.

Traits: Observant, hard-working and talented, the rooster has a lot of self-confidence but can also become vain and boastful.

Traits: Dogs are loyal, honest and kind but they can be critical and lean into pessimism.

Traits: Compassionate and generous, those born under the Year of the Pig tend to be independent and refuse help from others.

MORE: When is Chinese New Year 2020 and why does the date change?

MORE: Beijing cancels Chinese New Year celebrations as panic over coronavirus grows