Nirbhaya Convict Files Petition In SC, China Coronavirus Death Toll Rises + More Top News 
 Nirbhaya Convict Files Petition In Top Court Against Mercy Plea Rejection

The latest delay tactic is by Mukesh Singh who has now filed a plea in the Supreme Court challenging the President of India's decision to reject his mercy plea. In his plea, Mukesh has also demanded the death warrant date on February 1 be set aside. President Ram Nath Kovind has rejected convict Mukesh's mercy plea on December 17. His curative petition has already been dismissed by the Supreme Court. Read more.
China Coronavirus Update: Death Toll Rises To 41

The death toll from the coronavirus in China has risen to 41. Another 15 deaths in Hubei province, where the outbreak began, were announced on Saturday. Health officials are struggling to contain the outbreak as millions of people travel for the Chinese new year, one of the most important events. Many festivities have been cancelled. There are now more than 1,200 confirmed cases in China. Read more.
2G Mobile Internet Restored In Kashmir From Midnight

After remaining shut for more than five months, 2G mobile internet services on postpaid as well as prepaid phones will be restored in the Kashmir Valley from Saturday but can only be used to access 301 websites approved by the Jammu and Kashmir administration, an official order said. According to a notification issued by the home department of the Jammu and Kashmir administration, access to the internet with 2G speed on mobile phones will resume from January 25. Read more.
Teenage Boy Sexually Abused By 16 Men In Kerala, Seven Arrested

In a shocking case a 16-year-old boy from Malappuram, Kerala has alleged that he was sexually abused by some 16 men over a long period. The boy, a Class XI student revealed the ordeal he had been going through since April 2019 during a Childline Counseling session. According to the boy, he was abducted and forced into unnatural sex by the men on several occasions. Based on the information by Childline the police have registered cases against 16 people. Read more.
100 Army Veterans To Walk 5000 KM Along Ganga To Help Revival

5000 KM on foot is nothing less than a herculean task but if it involves the Indian Army, it seems possible. A group of 100 army veterans plan to go the full distance to contribute to the Clean Ganga initiative. Come August and these daring veterans will start from the holy river's genesis 'Gomukh' to 'Gangasagar', the point at which it merges into the sea in the Bay of Bengal, and then return to the starting point. Read more.