Wuhan bans cars, will build second coronavirus hospital as Hong Kong declares emergency 
 The virus-hit Chinese city of Wuhan, already on lockdown, banned most vehicle use downtown and Hong Kong said it would close schools for two weeks as authorities scrambled to stop the spread of an illness that has infected more than 1,300 people and killed 41.

China's biggest holiday, the Lunar New Year, unfolded in the shadow of the worrying new virus.

President Xi Jinping said Saturday that the country was facing a "grave situation" and that the spread of the disease was accelerating.

Temples locked their doors, Beijing's Forbidden City, Shanghai Disneyland and other major tourist destinations closed, and people cancelled restaurant reservations ahead of the holiday, normally a time of family reunions, sightseeing trips and other festivities in the country of 1.4 billion people.

The outbreak began in the central Chinese city of Wuhan and has spread nationwide and overseas, fuelled by millions of people traveling for the holiday.

China cut off trains, planes and other links to Wuhan on Wednesday, as well as public transportation within the city, and has steadily expanded a lockdown to 16 surrounding cities with a combined population of more than 50 million, greater than that of New York, London, Paris and Moscow combined.

Wuhan went one step further Saturday, announcing vehicle use including private cars would be banned in downtown areas starting after midnight, state media reported.

Only authorised vehicles to carry supplies and for other needs would be permitted after that, the reports said.

Wuhan will assign 6,000 taxis to different areas, under the management of local resident committees, to help people get around if they need to, the state-owned English-language China Daily newspaper said.

The latest tally, from 29 provinces and cities across China, included 237 patients in serious condition. Of the 41 deaths, 39 have been in Hubei province, where Wuhan is the capital city.

The new virus comes from a large family of what are known as coronaviruses, some causing nothing worse than a cold.

It causes cold and flu-like symptoms, including cough and fever and, in more severe case, shortness of breath.

It can worsen to pneumonia, which can be fatal.

Most of the deaths have been older patients, though a 36-year-old man in Hubei died earlier this week.

Health authorities in the city of Hechi in Guangxi province said that a two-year-old girl from Wuhan had been diagnosed with the illness after arriving in the city.

The National Health Commission said it is bringing in medical teams from outside Hubei to help handle the outbreak, a day after videos circulating online showed throngs of frantic people in masks lined up for examinations and complaints that family members had been turned away at hospitals that were at capacity.

At least eight hospitals in Wuhan issued public calls for donations of masks, goggles, gowns and other protective medical gear, according to notices online.

While China has called for transparency in managing the crisis, after cover-up of the 2002/2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) spread, officials in Wuhan have come in for criticism over their handling of the current outbreak.

In rare show of public dissent, a senior journalist at a Hubei provincial newspaper run by the ruling Communist Party on Friday called for a "immediate" change of leadership in Wuhan on the Twitter-like Weibo. The post was later removed.

State media reported that Wuhan authorities have ordered the construction of a second dedicated hospital to treat patients suffering from the virus.

The hospital, designed to have 1,300 beds, is scheduled for completion in just half a month.

Construction has started on the first dedicated hospital and is due to be finished by February 3.

The Chinese military dispatched 450 medical staff, some with experience in past outbreaks including SARS and Ebola, who arrived in Wuhan late Friday night to help treat the many patients hospitalised with viral pneumonia, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.

The Ministry of Commerce is coordinating an effort to supply more than 2 million masks and other products from elsewhere in the country, Xinhua said.

On Friday, US President Donald Trump praised China's handling of the coronavirus on Twitter.

"China has been working very hard to contain the coronavirus. The United States greatly appreciates their efforts and transparency. It will all work out well. In particular, on behalf of the American People, I want to thank President Xi!" Mr Trump wrote.

Hong Kong's leader Carrie Lam on Saturday declared a virus emergency in the semi-autonomous territory, announcing that flights and high speed rail trips between Hong Kong and Wuhan would be halted.

Ms Lam said all official visits to the mainland and official Lunar New Year celebrations would be scrapped immediately.

But she rejected calls for a temporary ban on all arrivals from the mainland and said it would be impractical to shut down all border crossings with the mainland.

Schools that are currently on Lunar New Year holidays will remain closed until February 17 and education authorities have asked universities to extend leave for students.

A marathon that was expected to draw 70,000 participants on February 9 was cancelled, the South China Morning Post newspaper reported.

Ms Lam also said she had sought assistance from China's State Council to ensure there were adequate supplies of masks.



The embattled leader is dealing with the health issue as she faces broader tensions after seven months of sometimes violent anti-government protests.

"I hereby urge all citizens stay united to fight against the epidemic to protect all Hong Kong people's health and safety," Ms Lam said.

Hong Kong's health authorities have confirmed five coronavirus cases, all linked to Wuhan, with a further 122 people being treated as suspected of having the disease.

Australian health authorities have confirmed four cases of the highly infectious virus in Sydney and Melbourne.

Europe's first three cases were confirmed in France on Friday, with two patients being hospitalised in Paris and the other in the south-western city of Bordeaux.

Thailand has confirmed four cases, Malaysia has three, Japan, South Korea and the United States have confirmed two cases each, while Taiwan and Singapore have reported one each.