Chinese New Year washout as streets are eerily deserted with 56 million on lockdown and Wuhan a 'ghost city' 
 CHINA has been turned into an eerie ghost town with many cities forced to cancel New Year celebrations as the coronavirus epidemic spreads.

There are now 56milllion residents in 18 cities placed on lockdown across China as the country desperately grapples with the spread of the deadly virus.

Wuhan, where the coronavirus was first reported, has become a deserted ghost town despite 11million people living there.

Disturbing footage shows the once-bustling streets empty after the death toll climbed to 41 today - with more than 1,200 cases reported in China alone.

Shopping centres and schools have also been abandoned after officials restricted travel in the virus epicentre.

Public transport has also been suspended in ten other cities, temples shut and even the Forbidden City and part of the Great Wall closed.

Shanghai Disneyland theme park has also been persuaded to close from Saturday until further notice.

The rapidly-spreading virus has ruined the Chinese New Year celebrations after Beijing officials announced major events will be cancelled in a bid to control the spread.

Millions across the globe have ushered in the Year of the Rat - the first of the 12 zodiac signs in the Chinese calendar.

Colourful pictures show celebrations in Indonesia, London and the Netherlands as people celebrate the Lunar New Year.

In contrast, haunting pictures show Beijing's streets almost deserted as China is forced to lockdown temples, major tourist destinations and restaurants.

Officials have restricted travel in virus epicentre Wuhan, which is home to 11million, as well as neighbouring Huanggang, Ezhou and Lichuan.

Hospitals warned they could not cope with the number of patients turning up with symptoms.

The Hubei province city has been dubbed “zombieland” after chilling pictures and video emerged of people collapsed on the street.

In one disturbing clip, a man can be seen lying unresponsive on the ground while medics wearing hazmat suits and gas masks attempt to help him.

Another horrifying picture shows a man reportedly dead on the ground with blood pouring from his head.

It comes as a surgeon who treated coronavirus patients became the 41st victim of the outbreak after becoming struck down with the deadly virus on January 16.

Vietnam, Singapore, Saudi Arabia and Hong Kong all now have confirmed cases — alongside the US, China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand.

France yesterday confirmed three cases and Australia one - with all patients returning from Wuhan.

So far, 14 people in the UK have been tested for coronavirus, with five given the all-clear and nine still awaiting results.

But experts have now warned Britain is on the brink of an epidemic - with more than 30 people tested for the killer illness.

Preliminary research suggested the coronavirus was passed on to humans from snakes at Wuhan’s seafood market.

The Huanan Seafood market, which sold live koalas, snakes, rats and wolf pup to locals to eat, has since been shut down while an investigation is carried out.

Scientists in China yesterday claimed that the deadly strain shares a common ancestor with a virus found only in fruit bats.

Since then footage and images have been circulated purporting to show people eating the Chinese delicacy.

Bat soup is reported to be an unusual but popular dish particularly in Wuhan.