UK coronavirus tests come back negative as China warns spread is accelerating 
 All UK tests for coronavirus have so far come back negative, the Government has confirmed.

As of Saturday afternoon 31 people across England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland had been checked for the deadly flu-like virus.

Given that 14 were given the all-clear on Friday, it suggests there has been no diagnosis following tests on 17 more over the last 24 hours.

There have also been no confirmed cases in British citizens abroad, with the risk to the public still classified as low.

Meanwhile, health officials are continuing to track down around 2,000 people who have recently flown into the UK from Wuhan, the area of China worst affected by the outbreak.

The announcement came as China’s President Xi Jinping convened a special government meeting in which he reportedly told senior officials the country is facing a ‘grave situation’.

The flu-like virus has killed at least 41 people and infected nearly 1,400 and President Xi warned it is ‘accelerating its spread’.

England’s Chief Medical Officer Professor Chris Whitty had conceded there was a ‘fair chance’ cases will emerge in Britain as the worldwide cases increase.

The professor spoke following a meeting of the Government’s Cobra emergency committee in Whitehall on Friday, chaired by Health Secretary Matt Hancock.

He said: ‘I am working closely with the other UK chief medical officers. We all agree that the risk to the UK public remains low, but there may well be cases in the UK at some stage.’

He added: ‘The UK has access to some of the best infectious disease and public health experts in the world.

‘A public health hub will be set up in Heathrow from today. This consists of clinicians and other public health officials, in addition to existing port health measures.’

The hub aims to support patients on arrival.

But there are currently no plans to introduce blanket temperature screenings due to the fact it can take seven to 10 days for symptoms of the virus to appear.

From Sunday private vehicles will be banned from Wuhan.

Chinese media reports that plans have been announced to build a second hospital there to handle 1,300 patients within weeks.

Construction on another 1,000-bed hospital is already underway.

Lunar New Year celebrations have been cancelled in many cities as transport links were shut down and authorities steadily expanded a lockdown to 16 cities surrounding Wuhan.

It affects more than 50 million people – greater than the combined populations of New York, London, Paris and Moscow.

Australia have confirmed four cases – one in Melbourne and three in Sydney – and three have been confirmed in France.