How YOU can avoid catching coronavirus while travelling - from face masks to wearing gloves at all times in public 
 WITH at least 56 million people in 18 cities on lockdown because of coronavirus, many people fear that the death toll is only set to rise.

The US State Department and Centres for Disease Control and Prevention have advised Americans to avoid unnecessary travel to Wuhan, China - where the virus originated.

But there are measures the public can take in order to protect themselves from catching the virus.

There's still a lot of confusion surrounding the new coronavirus, which emerged about a month ago in Wuhan, China.

Chinese students from Wuhan College, who were hosted at Cambridge University, were said to have been clubbing in student areas - causing fear that the virus may be spreading on university campuses in the UK.

The city of Wuhan has been placed on lockdown, as authorities desperately try to contain the virus that has already killed 41 people.

Experts have warned that Britain is on the brink of an epidemic - with more than 30 people tested for the killer illness.

The deadly coronavirus has continued its relentless global march, with the number of nations affected almost doubling overnight.

Confirmed cases have skyrocketed to more than 1,200 in China alone, officials said.

Here's what you can do to avoid catching coronavirus while travelling.

Staying as far away from someone who is sick is the best way to avoid contracting the virus.

Simply staying at home and away from any potential threats will limit the chances of getting coronavirus.

Like flu, coronavirus is transmitted through tiny droplets of spit - so getting to close to someone who may already have the virus would be very risky.

One of the best ways to avoid infecting yourself with the virus is by washing your hands frequently and thoroughly - as they are the main vehicle for transporting germs.

If you're out in public spaces where you're touching shared surfaces, you should be washing your hands as often as you can.

Using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer is also a good substitute if washing your hands isn't an option.

Wearing surgical masks has become a phenomenon in China since the outbreak of coronavirus - but there is little evidence to suggest that wearing one will completely prevent viral transmission.

While wearing a mask would be helpful, it won't stop every little droplet from entering your system.

Nonetheless, thicker masks, in comparison to thinner surgical ones, will be more effective.

Amidst the international panic, minimising the germs whilst airborne would be a way to protect yourself from infection.

If you suffer from a weak immune system or are particularly vulnerable to illnesses, then cleaning down the tray-table and seat-back pocket may be a good idea whilst you're travelling.

As cases of the coronavirus rose in Wuhan, the authorities were quick to shut down public transit in an attempt to contain the spread of the disease.

With over 56 million people now under lockdown, public transport was closed across 18 cities.

Touching surfaces that lots of other people have touched can be an issue - so wearing gloves when you're holding poles would be a smart move.

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368. You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.