Friday Box Office: ‘Gentlemen’ Earns Okay $3.7M As ‘Turning’ Bombs 
 Matthew McConaughey and Michelle Dockery in Guy Ritchie's 'The Gentlemen'
Christopher Raphael, courtesy of STX EntertainmentIt was a soft weekend for new releases. The total shutdown of the Chinese theatrical industry due to the coronavirus outbreak, over what would have been a lucrative New Year’s holiday frame, means I don’t  have the Chinese biggies like Detective Chinatown 3 or The Rescue to write about this weekend. Priorities notwithstanding, this won’t be a terribly long Friday new release post.  
The only “major” wide release was Guy Ritchie’s The Gentlemen, which opened with $3.72 million yesterday (including $725,000 in Thursday previews) in just 2,165 theaters. That positions the R-rated gangster comedy, which stars Matthew McConaughey, Charlie Hunnam, Hugh Grant, Henry Golding, Colin Ferrell, Michelle Dockery and Jeremy Strong, for a $10.2 million domestic debut. That’s not exceptional, but A) STX Entertainment only paid $7 million for the domestic distribution rights and B) Ritchie’s R-rated gangster flicks have never been outright blockbusters. The most popular of these, Snatch, earned $30 million domestic and $84 million worldwide in early 2001 on a $10 million budget. In that sense, The Gentlemen is doing fine. 
Mackenzie Davis and Finn Wolfhard in 'The Turning'
Photo by Patrick Redmond - © Universal Pictures and DreamWorks PicturesUniversal and DreamWorks’ much-delayed The Turning landed with a comparative thud this weekend. The PG-13 horror movie, based upon Henry James’ The Turning of the Screw, earned an F from Cinemascore (with an ending that reminded folks of The Devil Inside) and $2.69 million on Friday. That sets the film up for a $6.81 million opening weekend and a domestic finish probably closer to $15 million than $20 million. Oh well, we’re talking about an under-$15 million horror flick with minimal promotion, even with a solid cast (Mackenzie Davis, Finn Wolfhard, Brooklynn Prince and Joely Richardson) in the mix. At least 1917 is doing its thing while Universal waits for Invisible Man and No Time to Die.
William Hurt and Sebastian Stan in 'The Last Full Measure'
Roadside AttractionsRoadside Attractions released The Last Full Measure into just 614 theaters with minimal publicity and no buzz. Todd Robinson’s war drama, about a Vietnam war hero whose family attempts to get him official post-mortem recognition for battlefield bravery, stars Sebastian Stan, Christopher Plummer, William Hurt, Ed Harris and Samuel L. Jackson, so it might be worth a matinee just for that stacked cast. The film, which earned mixed-positive reviews, earned just $340,000 yesterday for a likely Fri-Sun weekend debut of around $1.1 million. If you want to see this one in theaters, you’d best do so in the next nine days. 
Nicolas Cage, Q'orianka Kilcher, and Elliot Knight in 'Color Out of Space'
SpectreVisionSpectrevision released Richard Stanley’s Color out of Space into 85 theaters yesterday, just one month prior to its VOD/streaming debut on February 25. The buzzy Nicolas Cage-starring H.P. Lovecraft adaptation earned $82,000 yesterday for a likely $207,000 opening weekend. The best-case-scenario would be a run like Mandy, which stuck around in limited release and earned $1.2 million in theatrical even as it remained available on VOD. If Disney really makes National Treasure 3, it’ll be Nicolas Cage’s first live-action wide release starring vehicle since Ghost Rider: Spirit of Vengeance in early 2012. He’s been busy as hell over the last decade, both allegedly due to financial struggles and because he clearly enjoys playing in the grindhouse/genre sandbox.