Denver Chinese New Year celebration cancelled amid fear over coronavirus 
 The Denver Chinese School has cancelled its 18th annual Chinese New Year celebration Saturday in the wake of community fear over the coronavirus, a flu-like disease originating in China that has killed at least 41 people.

Sue Wang, the school’s vice president, said an unconfirmed case from Lakewood, announced by the Colorado Department of Public Health on Friday, spurred the last-minute cancellation out of an abundance of caution.

“It was extremely difficult for us to cancel the celebration because we put months of work into it,” Wang said. “But the coronavirus case is very scary, especially in the Chinese community.”

St. Anthony’s Hospital in Lakewood said Friday afternoon that a person who had recently traveled to the region of China where the virus was first identified had come down with a respiratory illness and is being isolated as a precaution.

					
				

The case has not been confirmed to be the coronavirus, and a state public health official said the risk to the general public is considered low.

Still, Colorado’s Chinese community has expressed concern over the disease and appreciated the school putting people’s health first, Wang said.

The school had been preparing the New Year celebration since October, which brings thousands of people to take in Chinese culture, food and performances. This year would have been the biggest in its 18-year history, Wang said.


Most of the sponsors who bought ads for the event have agreed to still donate their money to the school, Wang said.

“People have been very understanding and supportive,” she said.

					
				

There are two confirmed cases of the virus in the United States, which has ordered all American workers at its consulate in Wuhun to evacuate the city, according to the New York Times. China has restricted the travel for millions of people as it attempts to control the spread of the illness.

Subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter to get health news sent straight to your inbox.