Wuhan coronavirus outbreak: 4th case confirmed in Singapore 
 SINGAPORE — Health officials have announced a fourth imported case of Wuhan coronavirus infection in Singapore, with all cases confirmed within the last four days.

In a statement on Sunday morning (26 January), the Ministry of Health (MOH) said that the latest patient is a 36-year-old male Chinese national from Wuhan who arrived in the Republic with his family last Wednesday.

“He is currently warded in an isolation room at Sengkang General Hospital (SKH) and his condition is stable,” said MOH. Prior to hospital admission, he had stayed at Village Hotel Sentosa.

While the man was asymptomatic during his flight to Singapore, he subsequently developed a cough on Thursday, and went to the SKH emergency department the following day.

He was classified as a suspect case and immediately isolated. Subsequent test results confirmed Wuhan coronavirus infection at about 9.30pm on Saturday.

MOH has initiated epidemiological investigations and contact tracing to identify individuals who had close contact with him.

On Saturday, the first day of the Lunar New Year, MOH had said that there were no new confirmed cases as of noon. It added that in total, it has been notified of a total of 64 suspect cases, of which 29 have tested negative for the novel coronavirus, and three have tested positive.

Test results for the remaining 32 cases are pending, the ministry added.

Yahoo News Singapore has reached out to Village Hotel Sentosa for comment.

The disease, which originated in Wuhan, has now spread to more than 10 countries, including Japan, Thailand, Singapore and the United States. There have been more than 1,400 cases worldwide, with 42 deaths, all in China.

Wuhan coronavirus: MOH confirms patient taken from Eastpoint Mall to hospital for investigation

Wuhan coronavirus in numbers: How it's spreading worldwide

ICA denies that over 100 Wuhan travellers stopped from entering

Wuhan virus outbreak: Masks, sanitisers out of stock in pharmacies