Democrats see Mulvaney as smoking-gun witness at Trump trial 
 Democrats say acting White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney John (Mick) Michael MulvaneySenate Republicans must stand up for the rule of law and ensure a fair, open proceeding Democrats cap impeachment arguments with focus on Trump stonewalling Lindsey Graham will oppose subpoena of Hunter Biden MORE will be the key to explaining just how closely involved President Trump Donald John TrumpTrump says his advice to impeachment defense team is 'just be honest' Trump expands tariffs on steel and aluminum imports CNN's Axelrod says impeachment didn't come up until 80 minutes into focus group MORE was to the effort led by his personal lawyer, Rudy Giuliani Rudy GiulianiParnas says he has turned over tape of Trump calling for diplomat's firing Pompeo explodes at NPR reporter, asks if she could find Ukraine on a map ABC: Recording apparently captures Trump discussing Yovanovitch ouster with Parnas, Fruman MORE, to pressure Ukraine to investigate former Vice President Joe Biden Joe BidenSchiff closes Democrats' impeachment arguments with emotional appeal to remove Trump Conservative reporter on Sanders: He's not a 'yes man' Democrats feel political momentum swinging to them on impeachment MORE.

One of the biggest weaknesses of the House managers' case is that they cannot point to first-hand testimony that Trump directed his subordinates to withhold military aid to use as a bargaining chip with Ukraine in exchange for a probe of Biden and his son Hunter. But Democrats believe Mulvaney was privy to the most essential conversations.

“I think Mulvaney knows way more than most people estimate,” said Senate Democratic Whip Dick Durbin Richard (Dick) Joseph DurbinDemocrats feel political momentum swinging to them on impeachment GOP senator calls for public health emergency over new coronavirus Tensions between McConnell and Schumer run high as trial gains momentum MORE (Ill.).

Durbin added that he sees Mulvaney as a more important witness than former national security adviser John Bolton John BoltonSenate Republicans must stand up for the rule of law and ensure a fair, open proceeding Democrats cap impeachment arguments with focus on Trump stonewalling Lindsey Graham will oppose subpoena of Hunter Biden MORE, who has said he is willing to testify at the Senate trial.

Democrats say the centrality of Mulvaney to the case against Trump was made plain on Saturday by Trump’s own lawyers, who attacked the House managers for not having a witness to directly link Trump to the pressure campaign against Ukraine.

Democratic senators point to Mulvaney’s Oct. 17 press conference where he admitted that the Trump administration had political reasons for withholding aid to Ukraine.

“I have news for everybody. Get over it. There’s going to be political influence in foreign policy,” Mulvaney declared in a statement that the House managers have played repeatedly on video during the trial.

White House deputy counsel Michael Purpura honed in on the testimony of U.S. ambassador to the European Union Gordon Sondland Gordon SondlandPompeo explodes at NPR reporter, asks if she could find Ukraine on a map Pompeo to meet with Zelensky in Ukraine amid impeachment trial Video becomes vital part of Democrats' case against Trump MORE’s admission that he presumed Trump was behind the pressure campaign.

Purpura argued Saturday that all Democrats have to support the “alleged link between the security assistance and investigations” were “Sondland’s assumptions and presumptions.”

After Trump’s lawyers rested their arguments for the day, Senate Democratic Leader Charles Schumer Charles (Chuck) Ellis SchumerVeronica Escobar to give Spanish-language response to Trump State of the Union address The Hill's 12:30 Report: Democrats turn to obstruction charge Liberal super PAC to run digital ads slamming Trump over Medicare comments MORE (D-N.Y.) said Mulvaney could certainly fill in missing details that even other requested witnesses, such as Bolton, may or may not know.

“There are people who have eyewitness accounts, the very four witnesses and the very four sets of documents that we have asked for,” Schumer said. “They made the argument that no one really knows what the president intended, but there are people who do know. Mick Mulvaney knows.”

House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff Adam Bennett SchiffTrump says his advice to impeachment defense team is 'just be honest' Schiff says Justice Roberts should rule on witnesses Schiff sparks blowback with head on a 'pike' line MORE (D-Calif.), the lead House impeachment manager, pounced on the conspicuous omission of any mention of Mulvaney in Trump’s lawyers’ opening argument.

“One last thing that really stood out to me and that was something that wasn’t said. It was a name in fact that was never mentioned and that is Mick Mulvaney. There is no mention of the chief of staff,” Schiff said.

“What about Mulvaney?” he added. “When they say no witnesses could directly put words in the president’s mouth — well, first of all Gordon Sondland did — but what about Mick Mulvaney, who admitted in a press conference just like this, ‘Of course we did. It happens all the time. Get over it.’

“Why did they make no mention of Mick Mulvaney? Why would they have you look away from the fact that the president’s own chief of staff has admitted to the most pernicious part of this scheme, which is the withholding of military aid to get Ukraine to do these investigations?" he concluded.