China's President Xi says coronavirus situation 'grave' 
 The US is arranging a charter flight on Sunday to bring its citizens and diplomats back from Wuhan, the central Chinese city at the epicentre of the outbreak, the Wall Street Journal reported.
In Hong Kong, with five confirmed cases, the city's leader Carrie Lam said flights and high speed rail trips between the city and Wuhan will be halted.
A Chinese health worker checks the temperature of a man entering a subway station during the Chinese New Year and Spring Festival on January 25, 2020 in Beijing.Credit:Getty Images
Lam said her government will raise its response level to emergency, the highest one, and schools in Hong Kong that are currently on Lunar New Year holidays will remain closed until February 17.
Lam said direct flights and trains from Wuhan would be blocked.

Xi held a politburo meeting on Saturday on measures to fight the "accelerating" outbreak, state television reported.
On Saturday night, the death toll in China had risen to 42, authorities reported.
Some 1372 people in China have been infected with the virus - traced to a seafood market in Wuhan that was illegally selling wildlife.
The virus has also been detected in Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Nepal, and the United States.

Hubei province's Civil Affairs Department deputy director-general Hu Yinghai appealed for masks and protective suits.
"We are steadily pushing forward the disease control and prevention ... but right now we are facing an extremely severe public health crisis," he told a news briefing.
Loading
State broadcaster CCTV, citing an announcement from China's tourism industry association, said the country would halt all group tours, both at home and abroad, from Monday.
Wuhan said it would ban non-essential vehicles from its downtown starting on Sunday, further paralysing a city of 11 million that has been on virtual lockdown since Thursday.

Nearly all flights have been cancelled and checkpoints are blocking the main roads leading out of town.
Authorities have since imposed transport restrictions on nearly all of Hubei province, which has a population of 59 million.
Australia confirmed its first four cases in two different cities on Saturday, and the country's chief health officer said he expected more cases.
State-run China Global Television Network reported on Saturday that a doctor who had been treating patients in Wuhan, 62-year-old Liang Wudong, had died from the virus.
US coffee chain Starbucks said it was closing all its outlets in Hubei province for the week-long Lunar New Year holiday, following a similar move by McDonald's in five Hubei cities.

Workers in white protective suits checked temperatures of passengers entering the subway at Beijing's central railway station on Saturday, while some train services in the eastern Yangtze River Delta region were suspended, the local railway operator said.
Reuters, AP