Coronavirus heat map: Interactive website shows terrifying outbreak spreading around the world in 'near real time' 
 RESEARCHERS have developed a live heat map charting how coronavirus is spreading death around the world.

Experts at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore are using the interactive graphic to display all new outbreaks in "near real time."

It has been developed using data from WHO, CDC, China National Health Commission and data from Chinese government sources.

The worrying map - seen here - reveals how the virus has spread from the epicentre in Wuhan, across China and the east and on to Europe and America.

Vietnam, Singapore, Saudi Arabia and Hong Kong all now have confirmed cases - alongside the US, China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand.

France yesterday confirmed three cases and Australia one - with all patients returning from Wuhan.

Fourteen people in the UK have been tested for coronavirus, with five given the all-clear and nine still awaiting results.

There are now 56 milllion residents in 18 cities placed on lockdown across China as the country desperately grapples with the spread of the virus.

Public transport has been suspended in ten cities, shutting temples and even closing the Forbidden City and part of the Great Wall.

The risks also persuaded Shanghai Disneyland theme park to close from Saturday until further notice.

Officials have restricted travel in virus epicentre Wuhan, which is home to 11 million, as well as neighbouring Huanggang, Ezhou and Lichuan.

Hospitals warned they could not cope with the number of patients turning up with symptoms.

Earlier today it was revealed the virus has already killed 41 people and infected more than 1,300 globally.

However a new report produced by the University of Florida, Lancaster University in England, and the University of Glasgow says only five per cent of all the coronavirus cases are being diagnosed.

And the bleak prediction reveals by February 4, the number of infected people in Wuhan could hit 351,396.

Preliminary research suggested the coronavirus was passed on to humans from snakes at Wuhan’s seafood market.

The Huanan Seafood market, which sold live koalas, snakes, rats and wolf pup to locals to eat, has since been shut down while an investigation is carried out.

Scientists in China yesterday claimed that the deadly strain shares a common ancestor with a virus found only in fruit bats.

Since then footage and images have been circulated purporting to show people eating the Chinese delicacy.