Killer coronavirus will hit Britain 'within days' 
 Ministers are in a race against time to help British scientists develop a vaccine against the deadly coronavirus as they warned the infection was expected to reach the UK within days.

Officials working for Health Secretary Matt Hancock say that after three cases were uncovered in France over the weekend, the 'operational assumption' is that it will reach Britain by the end of the week – and possibly even sooner.

The Mail on Sunday understands the development has led Mr Hancock to order an acceleration in trials of vaccines targeting the virus.

Health officials are trying to track down an estimated 2,000 people who have recently returned to Britain from the region around the city of Wuhan, where the outbreak began.

There is a particular focus on schools and universities attended by more than 100,000 Chinese students.

The Department of Health said it was trying to find 'as many passengers as we can' who arrived from Hubei province in the past two weeks to check on their wellbeing.

Teams of doctors have been seconded to meet passengers off flights into Heathrow from China.

Public Health England has also made a breakthrough by developing a genetic test capable of diagnosing the virus 'on the same working day'.

A senior Government source last night said: 'We are determined to lead the world in the response to this. We are accelerating our plans for dealing with the virus when it finally arrives here.'

So far 31 people in the UK have been tested for Wuhan coronavirus – 17 since Friday – with all cases proving negative.

However, the source said the contagion was spreading through several clear stages – the outbreak in China, the spread beyond China and then first positive case in the UK, which is expected 'within days'.

The hope is that imported cases can be identified immediately by medical teams at Heathrow, which is still receiving direct flights from China, and that any potential British outbreak is strangled at birth.

The doctors will then shepherd possibly symptomatic passengers into NHS care where they will be isolated so they do not spark a 'homegrown' outbreak.

NHS hospital staff have been told to look out for patients who might have the virus.

England's Chief Medical Officer Professor Chris Whitty has issued strict instructions to staff on how to protect themselves from infection.

However, as the virus has a week-long incubation period, health officials know that infected travellers could slip into Britain unawares – infecting others before becoming symptomatic.

That would trigger a major scramble to identify and quarantine all those who came into contact with the infected person, to stop a full-blown outbreak.

The chance of that frightening scenario was raised last night after it emerged two of the three Chinese nationals who have tested positive in France arrived without showing symptoms.

One of them entered France by land after flying into the Netherlands from China, underlining the limits of airport screening.

With the prospect of a pandemic, scientists at Imperial College, London, are working on a vaccine which they hope to be ready for human trials in less than two months.

Infection specialist Professor Robin Shattock said his team had two possible vaccines to test on animals in a fortnight.

Like other tests being developed, these are not traditional vaccines which offer the immune system a small part of virus to recognise.

Instead, they provide human cells with genetic instructions to fight the virus, which should mean they are safer and quicker to progress through trials.

Professor Shattock said: 'We are ready to rapidly move those into human studies if somebody wants us to respond.' He cautioned, however, that the approach was new and they were going from 'point zero'.

The UK is also contributing to an international non-profit body, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), set up in 2016 after the West Africa Ebola epidemic.

CEPI is funding three other projects to find a vaccine, two in the US and one in Australia. It has set them a deadline of getting into human trials in 16 weeks.

The current record is for a Zika vaccine, which took seven months to go from the lab to human trials.

Doctors fear if it takes that long this time, coronavirus could already have swept the globe.

UK Government searches for 2,000 people who flew into Britain from infected Wuhan over past two weeks

Government officials were last night searching for some 2,000 people who flew from Wuhan to the UK over the past fortnight.

The Department of Health and the Border Force were scrambling to track down those who might not have shown any symptoms when they landed, but could still have been carrying the coronavirus.

There are usually three flights a week from Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak, meaning up to 2,500 passengers and crew arrived over the two-week period, though some will have already left the country.

Flights from Wuhan are currently suspended, but a team of medics was yesterday dispatched to Heathrow to meet passengers arriving from other parts of the country.

Those awaiting loved ones were confronted with signs providing details of the dangers of coronavirus and symptoms to look out for.

Meanwhile, Public Health England installed a 'public health hub' on the airside part of Heathrow, with teams of seven medical staff working in shifts to identify any potential carriers.

Similar hubs have not been set up at other UK airports such as Gatwick and Manchester, even though they also receive flights from China.

A Public Health England spokesman said: 'We've established a hub at Heathrow as this has the most direct from flights from China. As part of a precautionary approach, leaflets and information will be made available across UK airports, advising travellers from China on what do to if they feel unwell.'

Travellers getting on planes across Asia are now being quizzed about the locations that they had recently visited, with officials looking out for any trips to Wuhan and the surrounding Hubei province.

Passengers also had their temperatures taken before they boarded flights.

One passenger, who gave her name as Fen, said those flying from the city of Guangzhou, 600 miles from Wuhan, had been told to tell immigration officials if they had any potential symptoms.

'The checks were done when we were taking off,' she said. 'We were told about what to expect at London, but as far as I know no one on the flight was ill. Guangzhou is a long way from Wuhan.'

Another traveller, who arrived at Heathrow on an Air China flight from Beijing, said: 'They checked our temperature when we got on the plane, but when we arrived in London, nothing.'

Meulin Ha, who flew to Heathrow from Shanghai, saw no discernible difference from previous trips. Shanghai is about 500 miles from Wuhan and Beijing is 700 miles away.

When asked why no tests had been carried out on those arriving from Wuhan before flights were suspended, Professor Chris Whitty, England's Chief Medical Officer, said experts had decided that 'screening would not provide any appreciable increase in benefit for the UK public'.