Authorities search for people who shared flights with coronavirus patients 
 "It is important to note that people in the plane generally probably have a low risk," Professor Murphy said. "It is more to provide the details of those sitting in close proximity to those infected."
There have been no confirmed cases of human-to-human transmission of the disease outside China.
Chief medical officer Brendan Murphy gave Deputy Prime Minister Michael McCormack and Prime Minister Scott Morrison an update on coronavirus in Canberra on Thursday, January 22, 2020.Credit:AAP 
NSW chief health officer Kerry Chant said the three men who have been diagnosed with coronavirus in NSW were not hospitalised because of the severity of their conditions but to ensure the disease could not spread more widely.
"These ­patients would generally be managed in the community but they are being admitted for isolation purposes," Dr Chant said.

All of the men, aged 53, 43 and 35, are being treated at Westmead Hospital. There is one confirmed case of coronavius in Victoria.
Loading
More than 42 million people are in lockdown in the central Chinese province of Hubei, of which Wuhan is the capital.
Across the country, Chinese authorities have cancelled the temple fairs and festivals that normally accompany the nation's biggest holiday, while the Forbidden City in Beijing, the most popular sections of the Great Wall and Shanghai Disneyland are all closed to visitors.
The government has also suspended all tour groups from journeys outside the country, state media reported, in another attempt to keep the virus from possibly spreading to new regions and countries. On Saturday, authorities announced plans to temporarily halt inter-province buses to and from Beijing.

They also cracked down on the sale of some types of exotic game meat at markets. The 2003 SARS crisis spread from civet cats, which are prized as a delicacy in parts of China, to humans working in the game meat trade.
While the exact origin of coronavirus has not been confirmed, experts believe it began in a Wuhan market that was selling wildlife meat.
Media outlets have reported that Russia, China and the United States are exploring options to get their citizens out of Wuhan. Singapore and Malaysia are among the nations that have recently announced coronavirus cases.
With the Washington Post

Nick is a journalist for The Sydney Morning Herald.