A Mystery Pneumonia Has Afflicted 44 People In Wuhan, China 
 Pictured here is the Yangsigang Yangtze River bridge leading to Wuhan, the capital of central ... [+] China's Hubei Province. (Photo by Xiong Qi/Xinhua via Getty) 
Xinhua News Agency/Getty ImagesSometimes you want some mystery in your life. This is not such a situation. 
“Mystery pneumonia” are two words that you never want to hear together. It is also what has already afflicted at least 44 people in Wuhan, China. According to a statement from the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission, symptoms have included fever, abnormal findings in both lungs on chest X-rays, and in some cases difficulty breathing. Eleven patients are currently critically ill.  
The word “pneumonia” is like the word “meme.” It only tells you what something generally looks like and not any specifics about the content. Pneumonia is a very general term for any inflammation of the alveoli. Alveoli, which rhymes with “bow tie,” are the very little balloon-like sacs that form grape-like clusters at the end of your respiratory tract in your lungs as seen in this picture:
Illustration: Getty Images
GettyYour alveoli are pretty darn important. The air that you breathe in through your nose and mouth is supposed to be filled with oxygen. This air then goes down your windpipe into your bronchi all the way to fill up your alveoli. Your alveoli are interlaced with lots of blood vessels that carry blood that’s been through your body. this blood has picked up a lot of carbon dioxide formed as waste products from your cells’ metabolism. Your alveoli serve as a point of exchange like an eBay where some products are being picked up and others are being dumped, or rather offered. In this case, oxygen swaps into the blood and carbon dioxide swaps out into the alveoli to then be exhaled. Imagine then what would happen to eBay if it were to become inflamed and filled with fluid and gunk. 
Lots of things can cause pneumonia, including many different types of bacteria, viruses, fungi, and parasites.  The only way to really tell what’s causing the pneumonia is to take samples from either the lungs or the sputum and fluid produced by the lungs and check for different microorganisms. However, even this may not be able to tell for sure, because microrganisms are very, very small. It’s not like trying to find a ferret in your lungs. Instead, doctors have to rely on different tests for known microorganisms. If the culprit is something very unusual or even completely new, then it may take a while to for doctors to figure out what’s to blame.
The Wuhan Municipal Health Commission has indicated that they have already ruled out more common causes of viral pneumonia such as influenza, avian influenza, and adenovirus infection. Some of the patients were from the Wuhan South China Seafood City, so authorities are looking into possible exposures to different sea creatures. Sea creatures may be tasty but they also can carry their share of different microbes.
The big concern is whether this virus, or whatever is causing the outbreak, can spread from human-to-human. Patients do remain in isolation at Wuhan medical institutions to prevent further spread, although the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission stated that at present there is “no clear evidence” that someone with the pneumonia can pass infections along to other humans. 
In the meantime, pay attention to what’s going on in Wuhan. This may not be SARS, which rhymes with “cars,” stands for severe acute respiratory syndrome, is caused by a coronavirus, and can kill up to 50% of people who have it. But either way, a mysterious pneumonia is not something that anyone should take lightly, regardless of how severe it may be. Sometimes it is better to take the mystery out of life.