US health experts hosted fictional coronavirus simulation 3 months ago 
 US health experts hosted a tabletop exercise which simulated a fictional coronavirus pandemic to see how authorities could coordinate a response to such an event - three months before the deadly outbreak in China.

Scientists at the prestigious Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security modelled a hypothetical pandemic on a computer as part of research last October.

The exercise was not intended as a prediction - but rather served to highlight how governments and industry would respond in the case of a very severe pandemic.

Meanwhile, the Chinese city of Wuhan remains on lockdown as authorities scramble to stop the spread of the real-world coronavirus  - nCoV-2019 - which has infected more than 1,400 people worldwide and killed 42.

The Center for Health Security and its partners - the World Economic Forum and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation - have made it clear that the inputs for modelling the potential impact of the fictional virus were not similar to nCoV-2019.

The Chinese city of Wuhan remains on lockdown as authorities scramble to stop the spread of the real-world coronavirus - nCoV-2019 - which has infected more than 1,400 people worldwide and killed 42. The Center for Health Security and its partners - the World Economic Forum and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation - made it clear the inputs for modelling the potential impact of the fictional virus were not similar to nCoV-2019.  (Above, microscopic photo of the coronavirus in China)

Dr Eric Toner, a senior researcher at Johns Hopkins, said he wasn't shocked when news of the coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan in late December.

'I have thought for a long time that the most likely virus that might cause a new pandemic would be a coronavirus,' he told Business Insider.

'We don't yet know how contagious it is. We know that it is being spread person to person, but we don't know to what extent.

'An initial first impression is that this is significantly milder than SARS. So that's reassuring. On the other hand, it may be more transmissible than SARS, at least in the community setting.'

Coronaviruses are infections of the respiratory tract that can lead to illnesses like pneumonia or the common cold.

One was also responsible for the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in China, which affected 8,000 people and killed 774 in the early 2000s.

Dr Toner's simulation imagined a fictional virus called CAPS - a pandemic that originated in Brazil's pig farms in the hypothetical scenario.

The virus in Toner's simulation would be resistant to any modern vaccine. It would be deadlier than SARS, but about as easy to catch as the flu.

His computer modelled outbreak started small, with farmers coming down with fevers or pneumonia-like symptoms.

It then spread to crowded and poverty-riddled communities in South America.

Flights were grounded and travel bookings were slashed in half.  After six months, the virus had spread around the globe.

CORRECTION: A previous version of this article stated that health experts 'predicted' coronavirus could kill 65 million people in a year. It has since been updated and we are happy to clarify that the modelled simulation of a coronavirus pandemic was not intended to be a prediction of events.

CORONAVIRUS: WHAT WE KNOW SO FAR The virus has been identified as a new type of coronavirus. Coronaviruses are a large family of pathogens, most of which cause mild respiratory infections such as the common cold. But coronaviruses can also be deadly. SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, is caused by a coronavirus and killed hundreds of people in China and Hong Kong in the early 2000s. Yes. Twenty-six people have so far died after testing positive for the virus.  Its symptoms are typically a fever, cough and trouble breathing, but some patients have developed pneumonia, a potentially life-threatening infection that causes inflammation of the small air sacs in the lungs. People carrying the novel coronavirus may only have mild symptoms, such as a sore throat. They may assume they have a common cold and not seek medical attention, experts fear. The virus's genetic sequencing was released by scientists in China to the rest of the world to enable other countries to quickly diagnose potential new cases. This helps other countries respond quickly to disease outbreaks. To contain the virus, airports are detecting infected people with temperature checks. But as with every virus, it has an incubation period, meaning detection is not always possible because symptoms have not appeared yet. How did it start and spread? The first cases identified were among people connected to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan. Cases have since been identified elsewhere which could have been spread through human-to-human transmission. What are countries doing to prevent the spread? Countries in Asia have stepped up airport surveillance. They include Japan, South Korea, Thailand, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia and Philippines. Australia and the US are also screening patients for a high temperature, and the UK announced it will screen passengers returning from Wuhan. Is it similar to anything we've ever seen before? Experts have compared it to the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). The epidemic started in southern China and killed more than 700 people in mainland China, Hong Kong and elsewhere SCROLL DOWN TO SEE MAILONLINE'S FULL Q&A ON THE CORONAVIRUS