How the coronavirus is likely to spread in the US 
 ​Travellers who unknowingly carry the coronavirus from Wuhan, China, to the United States may pose the biggest risk for spreading the respiratory infection, said Dr Arnold Monto, a professor of epidemiology and global public health at the University of Michigan.

The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has already begun screening people who travel from Wuhan to the United States for fevers and other signs of illness at airports in five US cities - Atlanta (ATL), Chicago (ORD), San Francisco (SFO), New York (JFK) and Los Angeles (LAX).

But Monto questioned whether that will be enough to contain the virus.

"With the flu, you're sick two days after you're exposed," said Monto, who worked in Beijing, China, during another coronavirus outbreak, the 2002-2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, outbreak. "This is more like five days, and sometimes up to 11 days, which means that when you screen at ports of entry looking for fever, you may miss people who will get sick later."

READ MORE:

 * Four coronavirus cases confirmed in Australia

 * Specialists urge caution over Wuhan coronavirus

 * First case of deadly Chinese coronavirus in US

It's those people, he said, who could be spreading coronavirus to others on airplanes, in airports and to health care workers who treat their symptoms.

"That's why they hand out slips of paper that say if you get sick, to contact the health department," when travellers are screened, said Monto, who is an expert on transmission, prevention, mitigation and social response to outbreaks and pandemic planning and has advised the World Health Organisation in the past.

"I think the health system will be asking more questions about travel," he said, as the number of cases continues to rise globally. "And let's hope we will be in a better situation than China, so it will not result in local transmission."

The virus, which causes fever, difficulty breathing, fatigue and coughing, has killed 41 people and sickened more than 1000 more around the world.

Three suspected novel coronavirus cases are under investigation in the US state of Michigan. A Seattle-area man and a Chicago woman who both recently travelled to China were the only two confirmed US cases as of Saturday morning.

Other cases of the novel coronavirus also have been identified in France, Malaysia, South Korea, Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam and the United States.

Although health officials say it is likely the virus originated in infected animals at a seafood market in Wuhan, they have confirmed that the virus is now spreading through human-to-human contact as well.

Relatives of those who were sickened at the seafood market in Wuhan also have fallen ill, as have some health-care workers who treated coronavirus patients, according to a study published online on Friday in medical journal The Lancet.

That troubles Dr Aubree Gordon, an associate professor of epidemiology at the University of Michigan's School of Public Health.

"While the full extent of human-to-human transmission is still not known," she said. "Chinese authorities have verified multiple generations of transmission, meaning that transmission is clearly occurring in the community. This is worrisome as the easier it is for this virus to be transmitted, the harder it will be to control the outbreak."

The Lancet study evaluated 41 people in Wuhan who had confirmed cases of the virus. Although the number of people who were studied is small and the outcomes were measured over a very short period of time, it was evident that the symptoms resembled SARS, another form of coronavirus that also originated in China and killed nearly 800 people and sickened about 8000 around the world in 2002-2003.

The study's authors urged public health officials to quickly quarantine anyone who might have the virus, and suggested that health care providers use respirators and other equipment to prevent exposure to droplets that might carry the virus when treating patients.

"No antiviral treatment for coronavirus infection has been proven to be effective," according to the study, which also noted that steroids were not shown to improve a person's chances of surviving the illness, and actually lengthened the amount of time it took patients to clear the virus from their bodies.

Although little is known about how the virus spreads and how infectious it is, those who travel on commercial airlines in outbreak areas have reason to be concerned, said Herek Clack, an associate professor of civil and environmental engineering at the University of Michigan, who has studied airborne disease transmission on airplanes

"All commercial aircraft have particulate filters in their cabin air treatment system," he said. "The problem is that viruses are much smaller than the smallest particles that typically can be captured on those filters. So, unless the virus is in, or on, a larger particle, it is unlikely that the virus by itself would be substantially removed as a result of being filtered by the typical passenger airplane filters."

Chinese authorities have suspended air and rail travel in the area around Wuhan. And the US State Department issued a travel advisory urging Americans avoid travel to the central Chinese province of Hubei, which is where Wuhan is located.

Anyone travelling to other parts of China are urged to take health precautions by: Avoiding contact with sick people: Avoiding animals, animal markets and uncooked meat: Frequent hand washing with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.

Use an alcohol-based hand sanitiser if soap and water are not available.

Monto said for now, he's hopeful that this new form of coronavirus will be fleeting.

"The good news, and we always need to be optimistic in these horrible days, is that ... we all predicted that SARS could not be contained. They said you can't get the genie back in the bottle. But because of the peculiar way SARS came from animals, it probably was not that well adapted to humans. ... It eventually was contained.

"Let us hope and pray that we've got the same situation here. I think we'll know within a couple of weeks whether it's different."

Anyone who has travelled in the last 14 days to China and feels sick with fever, cough or is having difficulty breathing should:

- Seek immediate medical care. However, before you go to a doctor's office or emergency room, call ahead and tell them about your recent travel and your symptoms.

- Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing.

- Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Use an alcohol-based hand sanitiser if soap and water are not available.