Morning Briefing: Top stories from on Jan 26 
 Good morning! Here are our top stories to kick-start your Sunday, Jan 26.



 Passengers arriving at Changi Airport Terminal 3 from a Hangzhou flight go past a thermal scanner. ST PHOTO: DESMOND FOO 



Prior to hospital admission, the man was staying at Village Hotel Sentosa.



 A woman wearing a protective face mask looks on at Jingshawn park overlooking the Forbidden City (right) in Beijing on Jan 25, 2020. PHOTO: AFP 



The death toll from the coronavirus outbreak jumped to 54, overshadowing celebrations of the Lunar New Year in China.



 Deputy Prime Minister Heng Swee Keat (centre, in red) and NTUC President Mary Liew (right) give out red packets to airport staff at Changi Airport Terminal 3 on Jan 25, 2020. ST PHOTO: TIMOTHY DAVID 



Even as vigilance is stepped up, Singaporeans should celebrate Chinese New Year as they normally do, Mr Heng said.



 All 314 passengers on the Scoot flight have been isolated at the airport until the blood test results are released. PHOTO: ST FILE 



Scoot said it is seeking to bring back 9 Singaporean passengers as well as 11 cabin crew and pilots.



 SCDF said in a Facebook post that it was alerted to the fire at Block 539A Bedok North Street 3 at about 11.35am. PHOTOS: SINGAPORE CIVIL DEFENCE FORCE 



Ten emergency vehicles and 30 firefighters were deployed to put out a fire in a two-storey supermarket in Bedok North. SCDF was also alerted to a fire in an HDB flat in Hougang.



 The US Capitol Building on Jan 25, 2020 in Washington, DC. PHOTO: AFP 



Lawyers for US President Donald Trump said the Democrats' efforts to remove the president from office would set a "very, very dangerous" precedent in an election year.

A lack of mutual trust could lead to countries developing their own technologies and separate supply chains. This risk - or reality? - loomed large over discussions in Davos last week, writes ST editor Warren Fernandez.



 The growing number of activities online and offline, such as the Children's Craft Fair held last year, has made homeschooling as an alternative route more visible in Singapore, say some parents. ST PHOTO: JASMINE CHOONG 



From sports meets to career talks to a "high school" prom, the homeschool scene here has grown.



 The population of cars with engines that are more than 1,600cc or that produce more than 130bhp has increased by 27 per cent from 2009 to 2019, said LTA. PHOTO: ST FILE 



The number of cars with bigger and more powerful engines on our roads has jumped in the past decade, and is set to overtake those with smaller engines - a trend which could have implications for resources and emissions.



 People watch a dragon dance performance during celebrations to mark the Chinese Lunar New Year in Manila on Jan 25, 2020. PHOTO: EPA-EFE 



Here is a look at Chinese New Year festivities from around the world.