China steps up fight against deadly coronavirus outbreak 
 China stepped up its fight against the deadly coronavirus Saturday, trying to stymie the crisis by putting another 39 million citizens on lockdown and halting all tour group operations.

The measures came as the outbreak spread to two more countries — Australia and Malaysia — and the US prepared to evacuate Americans from Wuhan, where the virus originated.

The virus has now spread to more than a dozen countries, sickening 1,200 and killing 41. So far, all reported deaths have been in China.

One victim was a doctor, Liang Wudong, 62, who fell ill last week in Wuhan and died Saturday morning, The Wall Street Journal reported.

In Hubei Province, where Wuhan is the capital, officials put another 39 million citizens on lockdown; about 11 million in Wuhan already had restricted movement.

And all Chinese travel agencies were instructed to cease all tour-group operations, the state-owned China Daily reported.

Chinese President Xi Jinping called the deadly outbreak a “grave situation” — his first comments on the virus.

Xi pledged to “beat the epidemic” as he laid out plans to contain the virus, including the creation of a task force.

Chinese President Xi Jingping.AP
The president said leaders in the Hubei Province had been chastised by some citizens for what they called a shoddy response to the burgeoning global crisis.

In Hong Kong, where there were at least five confirmed cases, authorities closed schools for two weeks.

NYU’s Shanghai campus also announced it would delay the start of its spring semester by one week, at the behest of local officials.

In Wuhan, the U.S. consulate arranged a charter flight to get citizens and diplomats back on American soil, The Wall Street Journal reported.

The consulate estimates there are roughly 1,000 American citizens in Wuhan, and is reaching out to them to offer them a seat on the plane, the Journal said.

The plane can carry about 230 passengers; the consulate will close temporarily.

US medical personnel will be on board the Boeing 767 jet to make sure the virus doesn’t spread further if any of the passengers are infected.

Two cases have been confirmed in the U.S. — one in Chicago and another in Washington state. Nonetheless, panic is beginning to set in.

In one central Texas city, stores sold out of medical masks after health officials said they were monitoring a Texas AM student who had traveled to Wuhan, CNN affiliate KBTX reported.

The student went to a local hospital with symptoms of a respiratory illness on Wednesday, according to Brazos County Health Authority, which said it sent a sample to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for testing.

In New York City, there were no reports of infections as of Saturday afternoon, a spokeswoman for Mayor Bill de Blasio’s office said.

As of Friday, state health department officials were monitoring three people who could have come into contact with the virus.

A state health department spokeswoman said Saturday there were no additional cases being monitored.

With Post wires