Canada's first 'presumptive positive' case of coronavirus found in Ontario 
 TORONTO -- Ontario’s chief medical officer has confirmed Canada’s first ‘presumptive positive’ case of coronavirus.

In a news conference Saturday, officials said the patient, a man in his 50s, fell ill after travelling to Wuhan, the Chinese city at the heart of the outbreak. The patient is in stable condition in a negative pressure room at Toronto’s Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre.

While the man tested positive for the virus during initial tests, officials noted that secondary testing at Canada’s National Microbiology Laboratory is required to confirm the case.

Officials in Ontario have been in contact with Canada’s public health agency and are working in collaboration with Toronto Public Health to “prevent any spread” of the virus. However, officials doubled down on concerns surrounding the presumptive case, noting that “the risk to Ontarians is still low.”

Dr. Eileen De Villa, Toronto’s medical officer of health, said officials are focused on finding out who the patient may have come into contact with in order to prevent the spread of the virus, noting that those who had close household contact with the patient have been put into self-isolation.

In a press release, De Villa acknowledged that it is “understandable that people may be concerned with today's news of our first case and that people may worry.

"But I assure you that based on the lessons we learned from SARS now 17 years ago, and given our experiences during the flu pandemic of 2009 and more recently, with Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome, we have learned, shared knowledge and built a stronger public health system that is ready to respond, as needed."

Deputy Premier and Minister of health, Christine Elliott, also expressed confidence in Toronto and Ontario’s health care systems.

“These protocols and procedures have been in place for some time,” she said. “The patient was detected and immediately put in isolation. Lab tests were conducted, and at the earliest signs of a presumptive positive case, Toronto Public Health launched extensive case and contact management to prevent and control further spread of the infection.

“Ontarians can rest assured that the province’s integrated health care system today is far more prepared to respond to any potential health risks than in the past.”

So far, two coronavirus cases have been confirmed in the U.S. Australia and Malaysia reported their first cases of the virus Saturday, while Japan confirmed a third case. France confirmed three cases Friday, the first in Europe.

China's National Health Commission confirmed Saturday that the death toll from the new virus had climbed to 41, with the number of people infected rising to 1,287.

Officials say that when more information is available regarding who may have been exposed to the Toronto patient, they will share it immediately with the public.