Hong Kong Disneyland, Ocean Park closed due to coronavirus ‘until further notice’ 
 Hong Kong’s two major theme parks were closed on Sunday until further notice as part of the emergency response to the China coronavirus.
Ocean Park and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort announced the shutdown on the second day of Lunar New Year, the day after Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor escalated the government’s outbreak response to its highest level.
The administration’s new year receptions have also been suspended – and large-scale events such as the annual Standard Chartered Marathon were already cancelled – to prevent the spread of the infection.
What you need to know about the coronavirus in China
Hotels on both sites would remain open during the closure period, while exchanges and refunds had been offered to those who had pre-booked tickets, the resorts said.
“As a precautionary measure in line with prevention efforts taking place across Hong Kong, we are temporarily closing Hong Kong Disneyland park from today out of consideration for the health and safety of our guests and cast members,” said a statement from the resort, which is majority-owned by the government.
“In the interim, we will be providing refunds to guests who have booked tickets to the park or rooms at our resort hotels,” it added, confirming all three hotels at the resort would remain open.


Ocean Park also announced on its website the attraction would be closed in response to the “government’s enactment of the emergency response level” and to put the safety of guests and staff first.
Guests could swap their pre-booked tickets for exchange or refund, it said. A spokeswoman added the Ocean Park Marriott Hotel would operate as normal.
“The park will closely monitor the situation, and cooperate with the government on epidemic prevention and control measures for the prevention of community outbreaks,” the Ocean Park statement read.
Both theme parks attract millions of visitors every year, and the ongoing Lunar New Year holiday is traditionally a peak period for people coming to the city.


The closures for an unknown period come at a difficult time for the parks amid the Hong Kong anti-government protests, triggered in June by the now-withdrawn extradition bill.
The 43-year-old Ocean Park, which sits in the south of Hong Kong Island, has been operating at a loss since 2015 and earlier this month sought a HK$10.6 billion bailout from the government.
Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, which first opened in 2005, has also recorded a loss in the four consecutive years to 2018, and the Lantau Island theme park has warned of further losses with visitors put off the city by the protests.
First protests, now virus: schools suspension could hurt those facing exams
Under the government’s emergency protocol for the outbreak, the Hospital Authority has also announced all general visiting arrangements, volunteer services and clinical attachment programmes would be suspended at the city’s public hospitals.
Meanwhile, the MTR Corporation said the cleaning and disinfection of train stations would be carried out more regularly to every two hours in areas such as escalators, lifts and tickets issuing machines.
All station staff were required to put on masks, the rail operator added.
A bleach solution is being used at MTR stations that link to travel hubs such as the West Kowloon high-speed rail terminus, Lok Ma Chau, Lo Wu, as well as Airport Express stations.
More from South China Morning Post:China coronavirus: Hong Kong leader hits back at delay criticism as she suspends school classes, cancels marathon and declares city at highest level of emergencyChina coronavirus: Hong Kong students face exam crunch as school year takes another hit after suspension caused by protestsFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.