NSW investigates two coronavirus cases 
 Health authorities are continuing to investigate two suspected cases of coronavirus in NSW, while three men who have been diagnosed with the deadly viral infection remain isolated in hospital.
NSW Health today confirmed two coronavirus cases are under investigation, revised from four on Saturday.
Meanwhile, the three infected men, aged 35, 43 and 53, have been isolated in hospital to prevent the virus spreading further.
READ MORE: Symptoms of killer coronavirus to look out for
Two of the men had travelled to the Chinese city at the centre of the outbreak – Wuhan – while another man had travelled from the southern city of Shenzhen but had direct contact with a person from Wuhan who was diagnosed with the virus.
A confirmed case in Victoria, involving a man who recently arrived on a flight from China, brings the Australian total to four.
NSW chief health officer Kerry Chant said anyone who has symptoms of the deadly infection should cover their coughs and sneezes with a tissue or their elbow and wash their hands thoroughly.
Symptoms include fever, cough and difficulty breathing.
Dr Chant said people shouldn’t be afraid of speaking to their doctors if they experience any coronavirus symptoms.
NSW Health Minister Brad Hazzard also urged anyone with symptoms to come forward.
“Please be aware that we do now have coronavirus here in Sydney. If you’ve got symptoms, ask yourself whether you’ve come in recent weeks from China, particularly from Wuhan,” he said on Saturday night.
Mr Hazzard said the state’s health department had done everything possible to identify and contain the virus.
Queensland Health shared some good news in an update on Saturday night.
“Five people being assessed in Queensland for the Wuhan coronavirus have tested negative to the disease,” the department said.
China has confirmed 56 deaths from the virus, according to the South China Morning Post, while more than 2000 people are now estimated to have the virus worldwide.
The illness has been confirmed other countries including Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore, France and the United States.
Canada has today confirmed its first case of coronavirus, with a man in his 50s being treated in hospital in Toronto after arriving on a flight from Wuhan via the Chinese city of Guangzhou.
Australians are being urged not to travel to Wuhan or China’s Hubei province.
Australia’s chief medical officer Professor Brendan Murphy said it was important for people arriving from Wuhan, and those in close contact with them, to monitor for symptoms including fever, cough, sore throat, vomiting and difficulty breathing.
“We don’t know exactly how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected but there is an incubation period and some patients will have very mild symptoms,” Prof Murphy said.