First case of coronavirus in Canada identified at Toronto hospital: province 
 The first "presumptive" case of coronavirus in Canada has been identified at Toronto's Sunnybrook hospital, Ontario's chief medical officer of health said at a hastily organized press conference at Queen's Park on Saturday.
 A 50-year-old man who returned on Jan. 22 from a trip to Wuhan, China, was taken by ambulance to Sunnybrook the next day with a fever and cough. Tests came back positive for coronavirus on Saturday afternoon and the man is now being treated in isolation in a "negative pressure" room at the hospital. His illness is currently "mild" and he is in stable condition, officials said.
 Emergency and medical workers were aware of the patient's travel history and took all precautions to prevent the spread of the virus, said Dr. David Williams, the chief medical officer. 
 "The risk to Ontarians is still low," he said.
 The province and Toronto Public Health are collaborating using protocols developed after the SARS outbreak more than a decade ago. 
 "The system is working," Williams said. "People did what they were supposed to do."
  https://t.co/uaGQNVRVxt
 — Christine Elliott (@celliottability) January 25, 2020 Toronto Public Health is investigating every place the patient may have visited and any people he came in contact with, said Dr. Eileen de Villa, Toronto's medical officer of health.
  Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre is caring for a patient who has a confirmed case of the novel coronavirus that originated in Wuhan, China.
 
 The patient is in stable condition and has been admitted to an isolation room. More info: https://t.co/BDLgqfjAzw
 — Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre (@Sunnybrook) January 25, 2020 "We have somebody who's had very little external contact," she said. "Our focus is to understand who might have been exposed to this individual and in what sorts of settings this individual has been so we can determine who might have been exposed and who is at risk for further illness."
 Dr. Barbara Yaffe, Ontario's associate chief medical officer of health, assured the public that the coronavirus is not easily spread between people and that the members of the man's household have been identified and are being monitored for signs of infection.
 The patient flew from Wuhan to Guangzhou, and then to Toronto. Public officials are working to identify the passengers who sat within three rows of him.
 De Villa said that after returning to Toronto, the patient took a private vehicle from the airport to his home and did not use public transit.
 All travellers from China are being screened for infection at airports in Toronto, Vancouver and Montreal, with airline staff and customs and immigration officers participating in the effort.
 Ontario Health Minister Christine Elliott urged the public to continue taking normal precautions to avoid infection, including hand washing and coughing into one's sleeve.
 "Although there is now a presumptive confirmed case of novel coronavirus in Ontario, I want Ontarians to know that the province is prepared to actively identify, prevent and control the spread of this serious infectious disease," Elliott said in a press release. 
 "We are still in the early hours of learning about this situation," said Yaffe, who stressed that emergency workers took all appropriate precautions to prevent the spread of the virus while the patient was transported to hospital.
 "We are continuing our investigative work and expect that we will have further updates," she said.
 The public is being asked to visit a dedicated website at ontario.ca/coronavirus for updates.
 "Our health officials are clear that the risk to residents continues to remain low," said Mayor John Tory in a statement.
 "Our front-line health-care workers are the best in the world and have procedures in place to keep people safe."
 The outbreak of coronavirus that began last month in Wuhan, in central China, has infected more than 1,200 people and killed 41.
 Australia and Malaysia reported their first cases Saturday — four each — and Japan its third. France confirmed three cases Friday, the first in Europe, and the U.S. identified its second, a woman in Chicago who had returned from China.