Case of Wuhan coronavirus confirmed in Toronto 
 TORONTO – Public health officials say they identified a “presumptive positive” case of Wuhan coronavirus at Toronto’s Sunnybrook Hospital.

The confirmation comes as authorities around the world grapple with the new type of virus, which originated in China but has since spread to Europe and North America.

Associate medical officer of health, Dr. Barbara Yaffe, says the person infected is a man in his 50’s who is in hospital in Toronto. He had recently returned to Toronto from Wuhan, China where the virus outbreak originated.

His wife is showing no symptoms and his family remains in isolation.

“The emergency service was aware of his travel history, used full precautions. All the staff are taking appropriate precautions and the condition is stable,” she says.

Ontario Health Minister Christine Elliot says medical experts are on top of the situation.

“Ontarians can rest assured that the province’s integrated healthcare system today is far more prepared to respond to any potential health risks than in the past,” she says, adding they are working to identify everyone the man had contact with.

Authorities around the world have confirmed around 2,000 cases so far, including three in France and two in the United States.

While 56 people have died of the virus in China, the World Health Organization has not declared the outbreak to be an international public health emergency.

Meantime, both B.C.’s Minister of Health and the province’s top doctor have issued a statement saying the risk remains low.

“We know our colleagues in Ontario will continue to work with their local health officials and the federal health authorities to ensure every measure is taken to prevent the spread of this virus,” reads a joint statement from Adrian Dix and Dr. Bonnie Henry. “We are closely watching the situation in Canada and globally, and are meeting regularly with our counterparts across the country to make sure we are prepared if cases arise in B.C.”

They are reminding British Columbians that the BC Centre for Disease Control is prepared to respond to any possible cases with a diagnostic test, staff and supplies. They say screening has been stepped up, and urge anyone with symptoms to get immediate medical attention.

“Health-care workers have been asked to be vigilant and take a travel history for anyone reporting respiratory symptoms. Anyone who is concerned they may have been exposed to, or are experiencing symptoms of the novel coronavirus, particularly if you have travelled to areas of China where the virus is active or been in contact with ill people from that area, should contact their health-care provider, local public health office or call 811.”

This strain of coronavirus has symptoms including fever, cough and difficulty breathing.

Typically, coronavirus infections manifest as the common cold. Symptoms can include runny nose, headache, cough, sore throat and fever. Young babies may contract gastrointestinal disease.