Coronavirus Live Updates: Death Toll Reaches 56, as Shanghai Is Hit 
 Death toll rises to 56; one fatality in Shanghai. 
China on Sunday morning announced 15 more deaths from the new coronavirus, including one in Shanghai, the first reported so far in the metropolis.
Thirteen more deaths were also announced in Hubei Province, where the outbreak began, and one was announced in Henan Province. The latest deaths brought the toll in China to 56.
Across the country, 688 cases of the new virus were diagnosed on Saturday, the government said early Sunday. That brings the total number of confirmed cases to 1,975. 
Deaths from the coronavirus had previously been reported outside of Hubei, the outbreak’s epicenter. But the death in Shanghai, which is among China’s most populous cities and a major commercial hub, is likely to add to anxieties about the disease’s spread.


Shanghai’s municipal health commission said on Sunday that the patient who died was an 88-year-old man. 


The central government is deploying hundreds of workers. 
In a sign that the central government was ramping up its response, China’s National Health Commission said it would send 1,230 medical experts to Wuhan to assist in treatment.
The army has sent another 450 people, from three military medical universities, to Wuhan, according to a state media article that the health commission shared on its website. And the air force sent military transport aircraft to the cities of Shanghai, Xi’an and Chongqing to pick up emergency airlifts of medical team members and medical supplies for Wuhan.
In Wuhan, health officials said that they would assign 24 general hospitals to treat potential coronavirus patients only, according to People’s Daily, the Communist Party’s main newspaper. National officials had called on Saturday for patients to be concentrated in specialized hospitals, and new hospitals were being built specifically to treat patients.


Americans in Wuhan being evacuated to San Francisco.
The United States government offered details on its plan to evacuate American diplomats and private citizens from the stricken city of Wuhan, saying on Sunday that it was arranging a flight that would leave on Tuesday and travel to San Francisco.
The State Department has ordered all American employees at the United States Consulate in Wuhan to leave the city. In an email sent on Sunday to Americans living in China, the department asked all other citizens who wanted a spot on the plane to contact the embassy in advance.
Capacity would be “extremely limited,” the message said, and priority would be given to people at greater risk from the virus.
Canada announces its first case.
Public health officials in Toronto announced on Saturday night that test results showed that Canada has its first “presumptive” case of coronavirus.
Dr. Barbara Yaffe, Ontario’s associate chief medical officer of health, said the patient is a man in his 50s who returned to Toronto on Jan. 22 after visiting Wuhan, China. The following day he was admitted to a major Toronto hospital with a respiratory infection. He is now in stable condition.
Dr. David Williams, Ontario’s chief medical officer of health, said that while they “are convinced” they have a positive case, a government laboratory in Winnipeg, Manitoba, will run additional tests for confirmation, which is why health officials are still calling it presumptive.
Canada’s medical systems established an array of health and safety measures intended to limit the spread of contagious diseases, following the SARS outbreak in 2003 that killed 44 people in and around Toronto. Dr. Williams said the paramedics and medical workers who treated the man were aware of his trip to China and took precautions to avoid any possible spread of the virus.


“The system is working,” Dr. Williams told a news conference.
Public health officials are contacting people who the patient may have encountered as well as anyone seated near him on his flight to Canada.
A rigid bureaucracy slowed the response to an emerging crisis.


The coronavirus outbreak seemed to be a full-blown crisis by the time the first news reports emerged: Dozens of people had already been infected, even some abroad.
Though the delay may suggest a cover-up, experts see something different, and more worrying: weaknesses at the heart of the Chinese political system.
China’s rigid bureaucracy discourages local officials from raising bad news with central bosses and it silos officials off from one another, making it harder to manage, or even see, a crisis in the making.
“That’s why you never really hear about problems emerging on a local scale in China,” said John Yasuda, who studies China’s approach to health crises at Indiana University. “By the time that we hear about it, and that the problem reaches the central government, it’s because it’s become a huge problem.”
Those systemic flaws appear to have played a role in the pace at which officials responded to the outbreak, and the country’s inability to address the health risks from its so-called wet markets, which are stuffed with livestock living and dead, domesticated and wild.


China is now mobilizing a nationwide response involving hundreds of personnel, one of the system’s strengths.
But the country’s political weaknesses can have serious consequences for the world. Disease and pollution don’t respect borders, so a unified national policy is typically needed to prevent or stop them.
For any health or environmental regulation to work, Mr. Yasuda said, “you want it to be standardized, you want it to be transparent, you want it to be accountable.”
Reporting was contributed by Raymond Zhong, Max Fisher, Vivian Wang and Ian Austen.