Coronavirus outbreak: death toll rises to 56 as Canada confirms first case – updates 
 9.12pm EST
21:12




Chinese president Xi Jinping says his country faces a “grave situation” in tackling the escalating coronavirus crisis. He has called for a greater centralisation of containment efforts, and increasing government control.

“Life is of paramount importance. When an epidemic breaks out, a command is issued. It is our responsibility to prevent and control it,” Xi told a meeting of the standing committee of the political bureau of the Chinese Communist party, according to state-run Xinhua news agency.



Updated
at 9.14pm EST




















9.04pm EST
21:04




The World Health Organization has not altered its alert level for 2019-nCoV






















8.23pm EST
20:23




From the BBC’s Stephen McDonnell, who is in Hubei province: (Australian readers will remember Stephen from his long service with the ABC...)
























8.16pm EST
20:16




From the BBC’s Stephen McDonnell: deserted streets in Hubei province






















8.13pm EST
20:13




Sunday has brought an increase in the proportion of deaths outside of Hubei province, the epicentre of the pandemic. State media is reporting that Shanghai has recorded its first death, as well as Henan province.

Tianjin city has announced it will shut all inter-provincial shuttle buses from 27 January (Monday) to curb the coronavirus outbreak.



Updated
at 9.15pm EST




















8.11pm EST
20:11



Revised death toll now at 56


State media in China is now reporting the death toll from the coronavirus outbreak is 56. All of the known deaths from the virus have occurred within China.

Nearly 2,000 cases have been confirmed, and there are another 2,600 suspected cases.




Updated
at 9.16pm EST




















8.05pm EST
20:05




To Canada next where health officials in Toronto have added a slight qualification to their initial statements saying that they had a confirmed case of novel coronavirus. They say the case is “presumptive” which means they’re waiting for definitive lab tests after initial tests at a provincial lab showed it was the virus. 

Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre had said on Saturday night local time that it was caring for a man is his 50s who had recently flown from Wuhan to Guangzhou and then on to Toronto on 23 January. “He really wasn’t in Toronto very long. He wasn’t feeling well. I think he was at home and the people that live with him are in self isolation,” said Dr Barbara Yafe, Ontario’s associated chief medical officer.

But Eileen de Villa, head of the city’s public health agency, said at a press conference in the last hour that “We have the first presumptive case confirmed of this novel coronavirus here.”



Updated
at 9.16pm EST




















7.53pm EST
19:53




More on the latest figures on victims in China. The toll stood at 41 on Saturday but 13 fatalities have been added overnight to make 54 deaths so far. The Hubei health ministry says seven of the latest deaths were from that province with the remainder elsewhere in China, marking a rise in the proportion of deaths outside the epicentre region.

There were also another 323 people infected, taking the nationwide total to more than 1,600. Only 46 of the new confirmed cases were in Hubei, the ministry said. 



Updated
at 9.17pm EST




















7.45pm EST
19:45




Welcome to our live coverage of the coronavirus outbreak in China and around the world. These are the main developments today:


Officials in China said on Sunday that the death toll has risen to 54 and the number of people infected is more than 1,600. 

Chinese president Xi Jinping says the country faces a “grave situation” as it battle to contain the fast-spreading contagion.

Lunar new year celebrations were subdued across China on Saturday with an estimated 50 million people subject to travel restrictions in the epicentre Wuhan and the rest of Hubei province.

The outbreak has spread to many other Asian countries and three other continets with cases confirmed in Australia, France and the United States.

A man in his 50s was confirmed as the first case in Canada on Saturday night. He had recently flown from Wuhan to Guangzhou in southern China and then on to Toronto on 23 January. 

The British Foreign Office has advised citizens against all travel to Hubei province.

French carmaker PSA, which makes brands including Peugeot and Citroen, on Saturday said it would repatriate expat staff from the Wuhan region where it has 38.


Researchers are racing to work out if infections have been caused by animal to human contact, which would limit the spread, or whether the majority are being caused by human to human transmission.

Li Bin, vice minister at the national health commission, will hold a media conference in Beijing about the outbreak at 3pm local time today.





Updated
at 9.18pm EST