What is coronavirus, what are the symptoms and how is it transmitted? Here's what you need to know: 
 CLOSE





    
        The 2019 coronavirus has drawn similarities with Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, a coronavirus that killed more than 700 people in 2002-2003.
    
    USA TODAY



The World Health Organization has declined to categorize the coronavirus outbreak in China as a global health emergency, and this week said there is no evidence of human-to-human infection outside China. 
But as of Friday, more than 800 people in China had been diagnosed with the virus and 26 had died from it and a small number of cases had been diagnosed in other countries, including at least one case in the U.S.
In the United States, one case has been confirmed in Washington after a man in his 30s returned from Wuhan last week and became ill.
On Friday, a Chicago woman who returned Jan. 13 from Wuhan — the epicenter of the outbreak, began experiencing symptoms after arriving home, said the city's health officials. The 60-year-old woman called her doctor after symptoms arose and she was admitted to a hospital, health officials said. Further testing confirmed the virus.
In addition, one person in Tennessee, one person in Texas and 10 people in California, were being held in isolation undergoing testing.
Here's what you need to know about the deadly virus:
What is coronavirus?
Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as pneumonia to Middle East respiratory syndrome, known as MERS, and severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS.
SOURCE ESRI; WHO; CDC, as of Jan. 23. (Photo: USA TODAY)

CDC: First US case of coronavirus reported in Washington state
Coronavirus symptoms?
Common signs of coronavirus infection include fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties. A severe infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and death.
Is it contagious? 
The virus can be transmitted from animals to people. But it also can be spread by coughing, sneezing and through close contact with an infected person or an object carrying the virus.
Is there a vaccine?
There is no vaccine yet. Nine studies are examining coronavirus vaccine development.
"Development of vaccine is a complex process, and it's not going to be available tomorrow," said Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases.
What does treatment look like? 
While there is no particular treatment for the coronavirus, recommended measures are similar to those for cold, such as rest and drinking a lot of fluid.
Coronavirus in the U.S.
The Washington man who contracted the virus flew indirectly from Wuhan to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, the CDC said Tuesday. He arrived in Washington on Wednesday, passing through the airport before the CDC and Customs and Border Protection began enhanced health screenings at several airports to detect travelers sickened by coronavirus coming into the United States from Wuhan.
Those screenings began Friday at airports in San Francisco, New York and Los Angeles. Screenings were also expected to begin in Chicago and Atlanta, and all flights from Wuhan were being redirected to these five airports, the CDC said Tuesday.
"With global travel, the spread of any infectious disease is literally a plane ride away," says Robert Glatter, an emergency physician at New York's Lenox Hill Hospital.
Glatter, however, said perspective is important.
"It’s more likely that you would encounter the flu compared to the coronavirus," Glatter said. "It’s the flu and measles which pose a greater threat to the global community at this time."
Mariah Timms and John Bacon contributed to this report. Reach Natalie Neysa Alund at nalund@tennessean.com and follow her on Twitter @nataliealund.
Read or Share this story: https://www.tennessean.com/story/news/2020/01/24/what-corowhat-is-coronavirus-and-how-do-you-genavirus-and-how-do-you-get-it-heres-what-you-need-know/4562365002/