More being tested for coronavirus, Victorian authorities confirm 
 China Eastern Airlines flight crew wear protective masks on arrival at Sydney International Airport on Thursday.Credit:AAP 
The man arrived in Victoria on January 19 on China Southern Airlines flight CZ321 from Guangzhou. He had spent two weeks in Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak.
Australia's Chief Medical Officer Professor Brendan Murphy said in Melbourne on Sunday that Victorian and NSW authorities were still trying to get in touch with all passengers on the man's flight.
Travellers seated in the two rows in front and behind the infected passenger were to be contacted first.
Victoria's case is one of four confirmed coronavirus cases in Australia. Three men in NSW have also tested positive.

Worldwide, the virus has killed 56 and infected nearly 2000 people. Canada confirmed its first case of the virus on Sunday, as Chinese President Xi Jinping described the outbreak as a "grave situation".
Professor Murphy said there were “several tests done every day” for patients who could have coronavirus, and more cases of the virus are "highly likely" to emerge in Australia. 
Efforts to identify and contact those on the same flight as infected patients were initially delayed by incorrect information on arrivals cards, but Professor Murphy said authorities didn't believe the risk was high.
"We don't really believe the risk from contracting the virus for those plane passengers is high, it would be much higher if [the infected men] had symptoms or were unwell on the flight, but they weren't," he said.
Chief Medical Officer Professor Brendan Murphy on Sunday afternoon.Credit:Ashleigh McMillan

Foreign Affairs Minister Marise Payne said the Australian government acknowledged the "concerns of Australians who are in Hubei province in China and the concerns of their families and friends".
"The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade is working closely with Chinese authorities and international partners to consider possible assistance with travel for Australians from areas that are affected by Chinese travel restrictions," she said.
All four men who have been diagnosed with coronavirus in Australia are in stable condition, remaining in isolation at hospitals in Sydney and Melbourne.
Monash Health, which is treating the Melbourne man while he is quarantined with the virus, declined to comment on precautions being taken to protect healthcare workers, referring questions to the Department of Health.
Loading

Victoria's deputy chief health officer Angie Bone said on Saturday she was concerned that the infected man had visited a GP the day before presenting in hospital, but the doctor did not suspect the man had coronavirus despite him being a Chinese national and resident of Wuhan.
Professor Murphy said he was "not aware of the exact circumstances" of the clinical interaction between the Melbourne coronavirus patient and the GP he consulted, and therefore would not comment on whether there should be an inquiry into the decision-making of the doctor.
The man was confirmed as having coronavirus at 2.15am on Saturday.
Professor Raina MacIntyre, the head of the biosecurity research program at UNSW's Kirby Institute, said the next step was making sure healthcare workers coming in contact with virus patients were adequately protected.
She said during outbreaks of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, another type of coronavirus, about 20 per cent of patients diagnosed with the virus were healthcare workers.

One healthcare worker has already died from the new coronavirus in China.
"The focus really needs to be on the healthcare system," Professor MacIntyre said. "We need to be jumping on confirmed cases quickly to prevent further transmission.
"Every patient with an unexplained fever … should be asked where they’ve travelled. There should be a high index of suspicion if someone has travelled from anywhere in China, and they should be isolated and tested."
Health authorities now know there is human-to-human transmission of coronavirus outside China, but it is believed that people must be exhibiting symptoms to be infectious.

Professor Murphy said healthcare providers in Australia were "well trained" to deal with infectious diseases as they treated them through the use of protective equipment and isolation measures.
Emergency physicians and GPs were given directions to check patients' travel history on Sunday.
"We believe it is aerosol spread, so coughing on someone would present a risk, but we don't really have good data on the infectivity or how high the risk of human-to-human transmission is," Professor Murphy said.
"There is no available, specific treatment for the coronavirus, treatment is supportive – looking after people and making sure they're isolated."
Professor Murphy said nearly all 56 deaths in China were in the Hubei province, which is the "focal point" of the infection.

"Since the Chinese have essentially locked down Hubei province and stopped people leaving, the risk of infected people who might be incubating the virus coming to Australia remains lower than it was before that time," Professor Murphy said.
"There is no cause for general concern, but we are very focused on identifying anyone who may have come with this disease in recent weeks."
Loading
Symptoms of coronavirus include fever, coughing, sore throat, vomiting and difficulty breathing.

Ashleigh McMillan is a breaking news reporter at The Age. Got a story? Email me at a.mcmillan@theage.com.au