Coronavirus death toll in China rises, Hong Kong Disneyland closed, US to evacuate some citizens 
 As the coronavirus accelerates its spread in China with 56 deaths so far, the US Consulate in the epicentre of the outbreak, the central city of Wuhan, will evacuate its personnel and some private citizens aboard a charter flight.

Chinese President Xi Jinping called the outbreak a grave situation, and the government stepped up efforts to restrict travel and public gatherings while rushing medical staff and supplies to Wuhan, which remains on lockdown.

Anyone travelling from Wuhan is now required to register with community health stations and quarantine themselves at home for 14 days, according to an order from the National Health Commission.

The latest figures reported on Sunday morning cover the previous 24 hours and mark an increase of 15 deaths and 688 cases for a total of 1,975 infections.

READ MORE:

 * Four coronavirus cases confirmed in Australia

 * China tries to contain coronavirus outbreak with extreme measures

 ​* Coronavirus: China building a whole new hospital to treat patients

The government also reported five cases in Hong Kong, two in Macao and three in Taiwan. Small numbers of cases have been found in Thailand, Japan, South Korea, the U.S., Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Nepal, France and Australia.

Canada said it discovered its first case, the man in his 50s who recently flew from Wuhan to Guangzhou, China, and then on to Toronto.

A notice from the US Embassy in Beijing said there would be limited capacity to transport US citizens on the Tuesday flight from Wuhan that will proceed directly to San Francisco. It said that in the event there are not enough seats, priority will be given to to individuals "at greater risk from coronavirus."

The French Consulate also was considering an evacuation of its nationals from the city. It said it's working on arranging a bus service to help French citizens leave Wuhan.

French automaker PSA Group said it will evacuate its employees from Wuhan, quarantine them and then bring them to France. The Foreign Ministry said it was working on "eventual options" to evacuate French citizens from Wuhan "who want to leave." It didn't elaborate.

An Ethiopian student in Wuhan told The Associated Press that it's becoming difficult to buy food and the situation was worsening.

"There are more than 100 Ethiopian students who are studying in Wuhan, and 300 in Hubei province," said the student, who spoke on condition of anonymity for his safety. "We fear that we will be sick soon. Our school didn't arrange anything ... (other than) giving us masks." He did not say which school.

Also on Sunday, two of Hong Kong's biggest attractions, Hong Kong Disneyland and Ocean Park, announced they were closing for the time being.

"As a precautionary measure in line with prevention efforts taking place across Hong Kong, we are temporarily closing Hong Kong Disneyland park out of consideration for the health and safety of our guests and cast members," the park said in a statement. It said a reopening date would be announced based on the advisement of local authorities.

Travel agencies have been told to halt all group tours, the state-owned English- language China Daily newspaper reported, citing the China Association of Travel Services.

Millions of people travelling during the holiday have fuelled the spread of the outbreak nationwide and overseas after it began in the city of Wuhan in central China. The vast majority of the infections and all the deaths have been in mainland China, but fresh cases are popping up.

Singapore reported its fourth case on Sunday, a 36-year-old man from Wuhan.

The Health Ministry said he did not exhibit any symptoms on his flight. He developed a cough the next day, sought treatment on January 24 and was immediately isolated.

South Korea confirmed its third case, according to Yonhap news agency.

In the heart of the outbreak where 11 million residents are already on lockdown, Wuhan banned most vehicle use, including private cars, in downtown areas starting on Sunday, state media reported. Only authorised vehicles would be permitted, the reports said.

The city will assign 6000 taxis to neighbourhoods, under the management of resident committees, to help people get around if they need to, China Daily said.

In Hong Kong, leader Carrie Lam said her government will raise its response level to emergency, the highest one, and close primary and secondary schools for two more weeks on top of next week's Lunar New Year holiday. They will reopen on February 17.

Lam said direct flights and trains from Wuhan would be blocked.

In a sign of the growing strain on Wuhan's health care system, the official Xinhua News Agency reported that the city planned to build a second makeshift hospital with about 1000 beds. The city has said another hospital was expected to be completed on February 3.

The new virus comes from a large family of what are known as coronaviruses, some causing nothing worse than a cold. It causes cold- and flu-like symptoms, including cough and fever, and in more severe cases, shortness of breath. It can worsen to pneumonia, which can be fatal.

China cut off trains, planes and other links to Wuhan on Wednesday, as well as public transportation within the city, and has steadily expanded a lockdown to 16 surrounding cities with a combined population of more than 50 million - greater than that of New York, London, Paris and Moscow combined.

China's biggest holiday, Lunar New Year, unfolded on Saturday in the shadow of the virus. Authorities cancelled a host of events, and closed major tourist destinations and movie theatres.

Temples locked their doors, Beijing's Forbidden City and Shanghai Disneyland closed, and people cancelled restaurant reservations ahead of the holiday, normally a time of family reunions, sightseeing trips and other festivities in the country of 1.4 billion people.

"We originally planned to go back to my wife's hometown and bought train tickets to depart this afternoon," said Li Mengbin, who was on a stroll near the closed Forbidden City.

"We ended up cancelling. But I'm still happy to celebrate the new year in Beijing, which I hadn't for several years."

Temples and parks were decorated with red streamers, paper lanterns and booths, but some places started dismantling the decor.

People in China wore medical masks to public places like grocery stores, where workers dispensed hand sanitiser to customers. Some parts of the country had checkpoints for temperature readings and made masks mandatory.

The National Health Commission said it is bringing in medical teams to help handle the outbreak, a day after videos circulating online showed throngs of frantic people in masks lined up for examinations and complaints that family members had been turned away at hospitals that were at capacity.

The Chinese military dispatched 450 medical staff, some with experience in past outbreaks, including SARS and Ebola, who arrived in Wuhan late on Friday to help treat many patients hospitalised with viral pneumonia, Xinhua reported.

Xinhua also said medical supplies are being rushed to the city, including 14,000 protective suits, 110,000 pairs of gloves and masks and goggles.

The rapid increase in reported deaths and illnesses does not necessarily mean the crisis is getting worse but could reflect better monitoring and reporting of the virus.

It is not clear how lethal the new coronavirus is or even whether it is as dangerous as the ordinary flu, which kills tens of thousands of people every year in the US alone.