Government trying to get Australians out of Wuhan as coronavirus grips Chinese city 
 Foreign Minister Marise Payne says diplomatic staff are working with Chinese authorities in an effort to get Australian citizens out of the Chinese city dubbed 'ground zero' in the deadly coronavirus outbreak.

There are 1,975 people infected with the disease and Hubei province, the coronavirus epicentre, confirmed 326 new cases there on Sunday.

The ABC has confirmed that more than 75 Australian children are currently trapped in that area, which is now in lockdown as the death toll from the virus climbed above 50.

The ABC understands that all of these children aged from six months to 16 years old are Australian citizens, and most of them were in Wuhan to celebrate the Lunar New Year holiday with their families.

Chen Chen, whose wife Cherry Xiao is 34 weeks pregnant, told the ABC that his wife was badly hampered by the traffic ban in Wuhan, and they were concerned about the delivery of their baby in May.

"I am very worried about my child and my wife, given that we had regular checks in Tongji hospital, where some other pregnant women were found to have coronavirus," Mr Chen said.

The expectant father said he understood that there would be very limited resources for Australians in the city of Wuhan.

"As the due date is approaching, all we can do is to wait for the Australian Government to help," Mr Chen said.

Yi Xu, the father of a six-month-old baby girl is also in a hurry to find a way to get his child home and called for the Morrison Government to charter a plane to get Australians trapped in Wuhan home.

The United States is reportedly trying to evacuate its citizens from the city using a chartered flight and France is also trying to get people out of the region.

"The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade is working closely with Chinese authorities and international partners to consider possible assistance with travel for Australians from areas that are affected by Chinese travel restrictions," Senator Payne said in a statement.

"Given the circumstances of the spread of the coronavirus, Chinese authorities are currently imposing very tight restrictions on all travel from Hubei.

"We are seeking advice from the Chinese authorities on these restrictions and whether any options are available to international travellers."

That statement came not long before New South Wales Health said they have one more probable case of coronavirus in Sydney, with three confirmed cases in NSW and one in Victoria.

Chinese authorities have implemented harsh new policies on the Wuhan area, including a ban on using private vehicles from Saturday night.

Only vehicles authorised to carry supplies and for other needs would be permitted after that.

Wuhan will assign 6,000 taxis to different areas, under the management of local resident committees, to help people get around if they need to, the state-owned English-language China Daily newspaper said.

The latest infection tally, from 29 provinces and cities across China, included 237 patients in serious condition. Of the 41 deaths, 39 have been in Hubei province, where Wuhan is the capital city.

China cut off trains, planes and other links to Wuhan on Wednesday, as well as public transportation within the city, and has steadily expanded a lockdown to 16 surrounding cities with a combined population of more than 50 million, greater than that of New York, London, Paris and Moscow combined.