Three possible new cases of cornonavirus are being assessed in NSW 
 Health authorities are investigating three fresh possible cases of coronavirus in NSW while three men who have been diagnosed with the deadly viral infection remain isolated in hospital.

NSW Health on Sunday confirmed there were a total of five cases under investigation.

Earlier, two people had been cleared, temporarily bringing the number of cases being investigated to two, however that was revised.

"Yesterday we reported we had four cases that were under investigation," NSW Health Minister Brad Hazzard said.

"We're very pleased to say two of those four cases have been cleared.

"It is, however, a moving feast in terms of the number of people coming forward.

"We have at the current time another three people under investigation. That gives us a total of five who are having their pathology addressed."

Meanwhile, the three infected men, aged 35, 43 and 53, have been isolated in hospital to prevent the virus spreading further and are listed as being in a stable condition.

Two of the men had travelled to the Chinese city at the centre of the outbreak - Wuhan - while another man had travelled from the southern city of Shenzhen but had direct contact with a person from Wuhan who was diagnosed with the virus.

Chief health officer Kerry Chant said anyone who has symptoms of the deadly infection should cover their coughs and sneezes with a tissue or their elbow and wash their hands thoroughly.

Dr Chant said people shouldn't be afraid of speaking to their doctors if they experience any coronavirus symptoms.

NSW Health Minister Brad Hazzard also urged anyone with symptoms to come forward.

Mr Hazzard said the state's health department had done everything possible to identify and contain the virus.

China has confirmed 56 deaths from the virus, while some 1300 people are now estimated to have the virus worldwide.

The illness has been confirmed other countries including Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore, France and the United States.

Australians are being urged not to travel to Wuhan or China's Hubei province.