'No-one in the family knows what to do': Up to 100 Australian children trapped in Wuhan coronavirus area 
 Foreign Minister Marise Payne says diplomatic staff are working with Chinese authorities in an effort to get Australian citizens out of the Chinese city dubbed 'ground zero' in the deadly coronavirus outbreak.

There are 1,975 people infected with the disease and Hubei province, the coronavirus epicentre, confirmed 326 new cases there on Sunday.

The ABC has confirmed that up to 100 Australian children are currently trapped in that area, which is now in lockdown as the death toll from the virus climbed above 50.

The ABC understands that all of these children aged from six months to 16 years old are Australian citizens, and most of them were in Wuhan to celebrate the Lunar New Year holiday with their families.

Chen Chen, whose wife Cherry Xiao is 34 weeks pregnant, told the ABC that his wife was badly hampered by the traffic ban in Wuhan, and they were concerned about the delivery of their baby in May.

"I am very worried about my child and my wife, given that we had regular checks in Tongji hospital, where some other pregnant women were found to have coronavirus," Mr Chen said.

The expectant father said he understood that there would be very limited resources for Australians in the city of Wuhan.

"As the due date is approaching, all we can do is to wait for the Australian Government to help," Mr Chen said.

Yi Xu, the father of a six-month-old baby girl is also in a hurry to find a way to get his child home and called for the Morrison Government to charter a plane to get Australians trapped in Wuhan home.

The United States is reportedly trying to evacuate its citizens from the city using a chartered flight and France is also trying to get people out of the region.

Lui Yeung, a father of two, told the ABC he was very frustrated that the matter had not received much attention from Australian embassies in China.

"We are a family of four with two young children caught up in the citywide lockdown," Mr Yeung said.

"We are currently in a Hotel in Hanyang, the hotel is also in lockdown. We are free to leave but not allowed back in, so effectively we are locked inside.

"With the increasing death tolls, it is clear that the longer we are here the higher the risk of being exposed to the virus, so we urgently need to leave Wuhan."

Mr Yeung said he first contacted the Australian embassy in China on the January 23, but the staff told him it was "Chinese Government's business" and there was not much they could do.

"But the South Korean and the US Government was trying to get their citizens out from Wuhan, it is clear the city is locked down but there are channels to facilitate the evacuation."

Nathan Wang told the ABC that his 11-month-old daughter was unwell and stuck in Wuhan with his wife and the pair's second child last week, where they struggled to get access to local medical resources given the risks and the saturation of resources.

"I can't even fall asleep. As a father, I was very desperate. I am guilty that all of the risks and pressure were put on my wife alone," said the father of two, who is in Melbourne.

Mr Wang added his wife and children had planned to return home on February 10, before the lockdown was announced.

He said he understood the latest traffic ban was to protect everyone, and that people seeking medical treatment could be inconvenienced.

But he said the Government should be taking sufficient measures to protect children by evacuating Australian citizens from Wuhan.

"We absolutely want the children to come back, because hospitals in Wuhan are overwhelmed," he said.

"The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade is working closely with Chinese authorities and international partners to consider possible assistance with travel for Australians from areas that are affected by Chinese travel restrictions," Senator Payne said in a statement.

"Given the circumstances of the spread of the coronavirus, Chinese authorities are currently imposing very tight restrictions on all travel from Hubei.

"We are seeking advice from the Chinese authorities on these restrictions and whether any options are available to international travellers."

That statement came not long before New South Wales Health said they have one more probable case of coronavirus in Sydney, with three confirmed cases in NSW and one in Victoria.

Chinese authorities have implemented harsh new policies on the Wuhan area, including a ban on using private vehicles from Saturday night.

Only vehicles authorised to carry supplies and for other needs would be permitted after that.

Wuhan will assign 6,000 taxis to different areas, under the management of local resident committees, to help people get around if they need to, the state-owned English-language China Daily newspaper said.

The latest infection tally, from 29 provinces and cities across China, included 237 patients in serious condition. Of the 41 deaths, 39 have been in Hubei province, where Wuhan is the capital city.

China cut off trains, planes and other links to Wuhan on Wednesday, as well as public transportation within the city, and has steadily expanded a lockdown to 16 surrounding cities with a combined population of more than 50 million, greater than that of New York, London, Paris and Moscow combined.