What we know so far about the coronavirus in Illinois 
 A Chicago resident has been diagnosed with a case of the respiratory coronavirus infection that has killed at least 26 and sickened more than 850, the second confirmed case in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.The first case was confirmed Tuesday, in Washington state, after the outbreak began last month in the city of Wuhan, China.More than 2,000 people across the United States had been screened for the virus as of Thursday, and 63 patients in 22 states were being investigated Friday because of possible signs of the virus, according to the CDC. Illinois officials Friday morning refused to say whether any of those 63 people are here.Here is what we know so far about the virus in Illinois:A Chicago woman in her 60s returned from a trip to Wuhan, China on Jan. 13 and a few days later began experiencing symptoms and was admitted to the hospital where infection control measures were taken, according to the CDC. After getting information about where she had traveled recently, her doctor worked with the CDC to have the woman tested for the corThe patient remains hospitalized in an isolated room and her condition is stabilized. The Illinois Department of Public Health and The Chicago Department of Public Health were investigating locations where the patient may have gone after returning from Wuhan, but the CDC said she had limited close contacts. The woman will remain hospitalized for at least 14 days and will undergo regularly testing during that time period, according to Dr. Dr. Allison Arwady, the commissioner of the Chicago Department of Public Health. The CDC announced Tuesday it would begin screening people returning from Wuhan via O’Hare International Airport. The CDC has advised airports to look for sick travelers arriving from Wuhan who may have a fever, cough or difficulty breathing. O’Hare is one of five airports in the U.S. where authorities were rolling out screening for travelers.Earlier this week, United and American airlines’ flight attendant unions urged the airlines to put emergency measures in place, including sharing information on identifying symptoms and procedures for addressing flyers who many be ill with the virus. State health officials are now also working to identify other people who have symptoms of the coronavirus and traveled from Wuhan before the heightened airport screenings.There will likely be more cases reported in the United States over the next days and weeks, according to the CDC. Still, the immediate risk of the virus to Americans is believed to be low at this time.