Chinese Nurse Claims Coronavirus To Have Infected 90,000 People, Govt Reports Approx 2000 Cases 
 The world is in the grip of a new fear- coronavirus. As the death toll because of the virus rose to 56 in China alone, many countries have issued an emergency. 14 countries apart from China have reported confirmed cases of the virus including the recently detected one in Canada. 
 Daily Mail
The Chinese government has claimed that the number of people infected by the virus in China, that originated from the city of Wuhan is about 2000 however, a nurse treating the sick there has made some shocking revelations. 
Video of a nurse  wearing a protective suit and face mask claiming that 90,000 people have already been infected by the coronavirus in China is going viral. 
Her warning video from ground zero comes as Chinese government faces accusation of censoring criticism of its handling of the disease in order to play down the crisis.
Daily Mail reports that the unnamed woman in the video says, “I’m in the area where the coronavirus started. I’m here to tell the truth. At this moment, Hubei province, including Wuhan area, even China, 90,000 people have been infected by coronavirus.”
 China was initially being praised for its transparency in acquainting the world about the virus and logical handling of the situation but critics believe that officials are cleaning the internet of videos that reveal the true situation.
 YouTube
However, the nurse’s report has gone viral and she has warned people to not go outside and refrain from celebrating the Chinese New Year.
She said, “I would like to say that everyone who is currently watching this video should not go outside. Don’t party. Do not eat out. Once a year, we celebrate Chinese New Year. If you are safe now, you will be able to meet your family again healthy next year.” 
 AP
Making a plea to people she said, “We don’t care what the government says. I will tell you through social media. Everyone, please donate masks, glasses and clothes to Wuhan. Please help us. Please donate disposable goggles, disposable masks and disposable clothing. Currently our resources are not enough.”
If the report of the nurse is indeed true then the situation is 45 times worse than what the Chinese government is letting on.