Trump lawyers turn tables at impeachment trial, accuse Democrats of election interference 
 White House counsel Pat Cipollone. (Senate Television via AP)
          



Good morning and welcome to a special Sunday edition of Fox News First. Here's what you need to know as you start your day ...
Trump legal team goes on offense at impeachment trial, accuses Democrats of 'massive' election interference 

President Trump's lawyers, in their opening statements Saturday, defended the president against articles of impeachment by arguing Democrats were trying to interfere in elections by seeking to remove him from the 2020 ballot for doing “absolutely nothing wrong.”
Trump's team used a strategy that sought to turn the tables on Democrats who argued that the president was trying to get Ukraine to interfere in the 2020 election by pressuring government officials into investigating potential opponent Joe Biden. White House Counsel Pat Cipollone said Saturday that Democrats have no case for impeachment.
It is Democrats, not Trump, who are doing damage to democracy by trying to undermine the will of American voters, he said. Not only are Democrats asking the Senate to undo the results of the 2016 presidential election but they want all 2020 election ballots with Trump’s name on them torn up, Cipollone charged.
“For all their talk about election interference, they're here to perpetrate the most massive interference in an election in American history,” Cipollone said in his opening remarks to the Senate. “And we can't allow that to happen."
Billed as a teaser for next week's argument, Trump's legal team gave a two-hour preview of their legal argument. All told, they'll have three days and up to 24 hours to launch their defense - the same amount of time as House managers. Arguments resume in Trump's Senate impeachment trial on Monday. Click for more on our top story.
Other developments in Trump's Senate impeachment trial:

- Pompeo blasts 'shameful' NPR reporter, claims she broke agreement

- Trump rates his legal team's performance

- Schiff stands by 'head on a pike' remark in Senate impeachment speech amid GOP furor
Full video of Trump discussing Ukraine ambassador’s ouster released

Fox News has obtained the full video of an April 2018 meeting where President Trump told associates that he wanted then-U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch fired.
"Get rid of her. Get her out tomorrow. I don't care. Get her out tomorrow. Take her out. OK? Do it," Trump is heard saying.
ABC News first reported on the recording, made during a meeting at the Trump International Hotel in Washington that included Lev Parnas and Igor Fruman – former Rudy Giuliani associates who have since been indicted. Parts of the audio were previously aired on ABC News, but Fox News is posting the full video here. Click here for more on the story.
Click here to download the full video. (Ukraine discussion begins near 39-minute mark.)
Canada reports first case of coronavirus as third US case is confirmed; death toll rises to 56

A patient in Southern California is the third person in the U.S. to be diagnosed with the new pneumonia-like coronavirus from China, health officials said late Saturday.
Earlier Saturday, Canada announced its first case of the coronavirus. The developments add to an outbreak that has already claimed the lives of 56 people and sickened at least 1,975 others since it originated in the Chinese city of Wuhan.

      People wear masks following the outbreak of a new virus as people arrive from the International terminal at Toronto Pearson International Airport in Toronto on Saturday, Jan. 25, 2020. (Nathan Denette/The Canadian Press via AP)
      


Australia and Malaysia also reported their first cases Saturday -- four each -- while Japan added its third. The first signs of the virus to appear in Europe occurred in France, which confirmed three cases Friday, The Associated Press reported.
The  U.S. Consulate in Wuhan announced Sunday it will evacuate its personnel and some private citizens aboard a charter flight. Click here for more, including a map showing confirmed cases around the world.

 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
TODAY'S MUST-READS
AOC bashes ICE, Sanders bashes Trump during Iowa rally | Warren endorsed by Des Moines Register
Royal Caribbean accused of giving 'false narrative' in toddler's death.
Super Bowl LIV: Time, date and everything you need to know.
Prince William appointed to new royal position amid Megxit.
THE LATEST FROM FOX BUSINESS

Trump 2020 win could turbocharge US economy: Wall Street.

Which will be the next company to join trillion-dollar value elite?
Boeing's 777X jetliner takes off on maiden flight.

 
#TheFlashback: CLICK HERE to find out what happened on "This Day in History."

 
SOME PARTING WORDS
Greg Gutfeld explains how Trump's Senate impeachment trial “is not meant for you or me.”
Not signed up yet for Fox News First? Click here to find out what you're missing.

 

Fox News First is compiled by Fox News' Bryan Robinson. Thank you for making us your first choice in the morning! Enjoy your day! We'll see you in your inbox first thing Monday morning.