5 Top Stock Trades for Monday: Broadcom, Disney, Ford and More 
 After a strong open and a push to new highs for many stocks, equities turned lower in Friday’s session on renewed coronavirus fears. Let’s look at a few top stock trades for next week.

After announcing a multi-year, multi-billion dollar deal with Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL), Broadcom (NASDAQ:AVGO) shares were in rally mode, hitting new 52-weeks highs. However, the selling pressure in the overall market rained on AVGO’s parade.

I would love to see AVGO hold up over the $315 to $318 area, which was stubborn resistance on the way up. If it can do that, it leaves $330-plus on the table, if the market is able to keep its footing.

If it doesn’t and AVGO loses its 50-day moving average, another test of $300 is possible. Below puts the 200-day moving average in play.

Disney (NYSE:DIS) hasn’t looked too pretty. While the market has spent most of December and January rallying, Disney shares have been putting in a series of lower highs.

In fact, the charts have a descending triangle pattern in play, a bearish technical setup. That occurs when downtrend resistance (blue line) squeezes the stock price lower against a static level of support (black line). It leaves investors looking for a breakdown below support.

That’s exactly what’s playing out in Disney. Given that the market is starting to wobble a bit, investors may be nervous buying DIS. First, let’s see if the 200-day moving average steps in as support, just as it did in October. Below puts gap-up support near $136 in play.

On a rally, bulls need to see Disney stock reclaim $143, as well as downtrend resistance.

While Tesla (NASDAQ:TSLA) has scorched higher in 2020, Ford (NYSE:F) has done the opposite. Now, it’s really breaking down.

Shares cracked violently below uptrend support and the 50-day moving average, as the stock is now below all of its major moving averages on both a daily and weekly basis.

Let’s see if Ford stock declines to the $8.50 to $8.60 range and if so, if it finds support there. On a rebound, F needs to reclaim the 50-day moving average.

American Airlines (NYSE:AAL) has a similar chart to Ford. After a very strong reversal on Thursday (despite worse-than-expected earnings), shares are again showing signs of weakness.

The stock is losing uptrend support and if it loses the $26.85 level, the post-earnings low near $26 is on the table. On a rally, AAL needs to reclaim uptrend support, but it’s a no-touch for me on the long side with the market’s current state.