California now home to third US case of coronavirus 
 California is now home to the third US case of the deadly coronavirus, officials there revealed early Sunday, joining Chicago and the Seattle, Wash. area, where the first cases were announced last week.

The news was announced as health officials in China said that the virus’ ability to spread was stronger than earlier thought.

That’s because unlike with SARS, the coronavirus is infectious during its one-to-14-day incubation period, China’s National Health Commissioner, Ma Xiaowei, said at a Sunday press conference, Reuters reported.

News of the California case was announced by officials with the Orange County Health Care Agency.

“The OC Health Care Agency’s (HCA) Communicable Disease Control Division received confirmation from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) this evening that an Orange County, California case has tested positive for the novel coronavirus,” the agency said in a tweeted release.

The patient, whose identity was kept private, was described as a traveler from Wuhan, China — the outbreak’s epicenter.

The patient had reached out to the agency prior to being diagnosed, and “was provided guidance in order to reduce exposure to the public while awaiting laboratory confirmation from the CDC,” the release said.

“The individual has now been transported to a local hospital and is in isolation in good condition.” Persons the patient had close contact with are being monitored.

No additional details were released.

Worldwide, an estimated 2,000 people, almost all of them in China, have been sickened by the virus, Reuters reported.

China’s National Health Commission said Sunday that 56 people, all in China, have been killed by the disease.

Isolated cases have been reported throughout Asia, and in France and Australia.

The first case in Canada was reported Saturday night, Reuters reported.

The CDC advises that while there is as yet no vaccine, all viruses can be prevented by washing one’s hands, especially before eating, and by avoiding touching one’s eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands, or close contact with people who are sick.