British lecturer, 71, stranded in coronavirus 'ground zero' slams British government for its 'lack of concern' 
 A BRITISH lecturer stranded in coronavirus ground zero has slammed the government for their "lack of concern".

Dr Yvonne Griffiths, 71, has been in Wuhan, China, for three weeks with colleagues from Birmingham City University as the killer disease spreads.

She was due to fly home on Monday but the flight was cancelled - with more than 56million on lockdown as public transport grinds to a halt.

The lecturer has now hit out at the government for being left in the dark about how to get home as the grim death toll today rose to 56.

Speaking from a hotel room in coronavirus epicentre Wuhan, she told BBC Wales: "Although there's been so much in the media about the virus and about the risk of students travelling back and forwards from the UK, there doesn't seem to be anything about stranded individuals like ourselves.

"And it seems maybe the British government has a lack of either concern or lack of planning in place, I'm not sure.

"I think there's a lot of uncertainty - that's what's frustrating at the moment as much as disappointing."

The spreading virus has infected more than 2,000 globally after it is believed to have originated from a meat market in Wuhan - a city with 11million people.

China's president Xi Jinping yesterday warned of a "grave situation" as he said the killer coronavirus was "accelerating its speed".

Wuhan has been placed on lockdown since Thursday as the Foreign Office urged all Brits trapped in the city to leave if they are able to.

The Foreign Office updated its guidance to "advise against all travel to Hubei province", which has been on lockdown for several days as China seeks to contain the illness.



 UK Home Secretary Patel said today the government was "looking at all options" as it considers airlifting British nationals from Wuhan.

But Dr Griffiths said she has been unable to get hold of someone at the British Consulate in Wuhan but has been unable to as it is the weekend "so no one is answering".

Her daughter Bethan Webber said: "There's advice for people if they're travelling to China.

"But for people trapped, there's absolutely nothing about what they can do [or] for what we can do to here either to try and get them back."

"It feels like British people are being left to their own devices in this crisis."

The government has been blasted for its reaction as Britain teeters on the edge of an epidemic.

All 31 people across England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland that had been tested for the deadly flu-like virus were negative.

The Border Force is hunting down 2,000 people who have recently travelled from Wuhan - the epicentre of virus outbreak.

But passengers travelling from China to the UK were not screened last week when they arrived into London.

NHS staff have now been put on high alert over how to handle "infectious" bodies over fears the killer bug will hit the UK "within days".

Acting Lib Dem boss Ed Davey told The Sun Online: “It’s time Matt Hancock pulled his finger out. We need to know how long the UK government has known the level of threat and how he is going to protect our citizens.

“These problems do not know borders and Hancock needs to work with international partners to stop this situation before it gets worse.”

There are now 56milllion residents in 18 cities placed on lockdown across China as the country desperately grapples with the spread of the deadly virus.

Officials have restricted travel in virus epicentre Wuhan, which is home to 11million, as well as neighbouring Huanggang, Ezhou and Lichuan.

Hospitals warned they could not cope with the number of patients turning up with symptoms.

The Hubei province city has been dubbed “zombieland” after chilling pictures and video emerged of people collapsed on the street.

In one disturbing clip, a man can be seen lying unresponsive on the ground while medics wearing hazmat suits and gas masks attempt to help him.

Another horrifying picture shows a man reportedly dead on the ground with blood pouring from his head.

Public transport has also been suspended in ten other cities, temples shut and even the Forbidden City and part of the Great Wall closed.

Shanghai Disneyland theme park has also been persuaded to close from Saturday until further notice.

Preliminary research suggested the coronavirus was passed on to humans from snakes at Wuhan’s seafood market.

The Huanan Seafood market, which sold live koalas, snakes, rats and wolf pup to locals to eat, has since been shut down while an investigation is carried out.

Scientists in China yesterday claimed that the deadly strain shares a common ancestor with a virus found only in fruit bats.

Since then footage and images have been circulated purporting to show people eating the Chinese delicacy.

Bat soup is reported to be an unusual but popular dish particularly in Wuhan.