NHS is 'completely unprepared' as killer virus expected to hit UK in days 
 The NHS is “completely unprepared” to deal with a coronavirus pandemic, Brit doctors fear.

The UK government is continuing to monitor the Wuhan coronavirus closely – amid fears 100,000 people could be infected.

It comes as harrowing footage revealed an apparent victim of the deadly illness shaking uncontrollably on a hospital bed.

The disturbing clip, watched by millions, is believed to have been filmed inside Wuhan hospital – located in the quarantined city where the outbreak originated.

Three cases have been confirmed in France as the disease edges into Europe.

Health Secretary Matt Hancock tweeted how the NHS “remains well prepared and well equipped to deal with all eventualities”.

He made the comments following a warning that the deadly virus would hit the UK in a matter of days.

But he was met with a backlash after a string of medical professionals rubbished his claims.

One medic called “Wandering physician” on Twitter, posted “Haha. I work on the front line. We are completely unprepared for a pandemic. What the hell are you talking about.”

Consultant Dr Linda Dykes tweeted: “How can you possibly say that with a straight face when the NHS is on its knees in the face of a perfectly ordinary winter?”

And analytical chemist “Dr Sparkes” posted: “The funding for A&E is so poor that it takes nearly 24 hours for an elderly person to be admitted to a ward of a major UK hospital”.

Neurosurgeon TJ Grundy accused Mr Hancock of “misleading the public”, tweeting him: “I suspect you know that the NHS isn’t equipped to handle normal winter pressures in a safe manner, let alone another health crisis.”

Consultant general surgeon, Claire, responded: “Agreed. How can you make these statements @MattHancock?! You clearly have no idea!!”

Others insisted they simply “didn’t trust” the Conservative party to look after their health.

One added: “The NHS does not have the capacity to manage current demand. Fact. Saying that it does does not make it true.”

Evacuation plans are being drawn up to get more than 200 Brits out of Wuhan, according to government sources.

The Foreign Office is advising “against all travel to the Hubei province” which remains on lockdown as China battles to contain the virus.

Chinese President Xi Jinping warned of the “grave situation” created by the “accelerating spread of the virus”.

A senior government source told MailOnline: The situation is now so bad locally, and the medical system so overstretched, that it could prove to be a death sentence.

“We need to get people out.”

So far 14 suspected Brit patients tested negative for the virus in the UK.