BANK OF AMERICA: Here are 5 'out of consensus' and not-priced-in market calls | Markets Insider 
 ReutersUS stocks are barely off their all-time highs reached    earlier in 2020, but looming risk factors threaten economies    around the globe.
Brexit continues to hold the UK's economic prospects    lower, while negative rates across the EU and quiet trade    tensions between the US and China breed uncertainty among    investors.
Here are five "out of consensus or not priced into    markets" calls detailed by Bank of    America economists on Friday.
Visit the    Business Insider homepage for more stories.

  The US and China's phase-one trade deal and waning recession  fears are keeping markets near record highs, but investors are  missing a slew of global factors that could wreak economic havoc  later in the year, according to Bank of  America.
  Stocks fell in Friday trading amid reports of the coronavirus  spreading further through China and the US. Markets were  previously threatened by worse-than-expected economic data and  rising tensions between the US and Iran, but reached new highs  through mid-January as few variables threatened the historic bull  run.
  A Friday note from Bank of America detailed a handful of calls  that haven't been fleshed out among Wall Street analysts or that  fall outside the consensus of anticipated developments. The  scenarios look further into 2020 for looming risk factors and  policy decisions, and warn clients of market threats that could  crop up around the globe.
  Here are the five "out of consensus or nor priced into the  markets" calls detailed by Bank of America.





US-China pause
Kevin Lamarque/Reuters  Ink on the phase-one deal is barely dry, but economists Ethan  Harris and Aditya Bhave project a sizable chance of further trade  war escalation following the 2020 US presidential election.
  "We still expect a 'noisy' ceasefire through the 2020 elections,"  the analysts wrote. "But we see significant risk that the  conflict will re-escalate thereafter, as there is a great deal of  unfinished business."
  Tensions between the two countries' tech industries haven't  eased, and recent bills from the US legislature backing human  rights protests in Hong Kong will only complicate trade  negotiations, the analysts added.





Rate cuts in Mexico
Henry Romero/Reuters  Though most central banks are looking for steady inflation before  resuming rate adjustments, Mexico's monetary policy authority is  poised to slash its overnight rate in 2020, the bank said.
  Markets are pricing in a cut to 6.25% from 7.75% by the end of  2020, though consensus estimates call for a softer adjustment to  6.5%.
  Bank of America's analysts expect a cut to 7%, noting that  inflation above the country's 3% target will stave off the larger  cuts projected by other economists.





European Union's negative rates
Reuters  Negative interest rates remain one of the most talked-about  market phenomena in the new year, and the economists expect "the  debate about the counterproductive effects" of such policy to  amplify in 2020.
  The European Central Bank is poised to continue its policy of  quantitative easing and hint at lower rates lasting longer, the  bank wrote. The lack of a shift away from the controversial rates  will likely upset investors seeking greater market certainty.
  "Communication will be acrobatic and could upset markets, which  are not pricing much risk of higher front-end rates," the  economists said.





Slow inflation in the UK
Getty  Brexit continues to cut into the UK's economic growth prospects,  and while many traders see the new Conservative majority as  bringing new certainty to the effort, the bank's economists tout  a different theory.
  Bank of America expects gross domestic product growth to stand at  roughly 1% in both 2020 and 2021 as Brexit woes last through  further trade negotiations and regulatory hurdles.
  "As a result, we think inflation could fall to 1.3% by mid-2020.  Stirling appreciation could extend the weakness in inflation,"  the team wrote.