China’s Top ‘League Of Legends’ Competition Delayed Due To Coronavirus Outbreak 
 The LoL world champions will have to wait to try and get back to winning ways. 
Credit: ADELA SZNAJDER / ESPAT MEDIAThe largest League of Legends competition in China, the LPL has been postponed due to the coronavirus outbreak that is currently plaguing the country. 
The LPL was due to return with it’s second week of action after the Chinese New Year break on February 5, with two matches scheduled to be played every day of the week. However, it has now been announced that there will be no matches played at all during week two, with the competition being delayed until a later, but as of yet unannounced, date. 
A post from the English language LPL Twitter account confirmed the heavily rumoured delay to week two of the competition. 
“We have decided to postpone week 2 of the LPL until we can ensure the safety and health of our players and fans,” reads the tweet from the LPL English account. “To our fans, we sincerely apologize that it has come to this and we will share any and all info as soon as we can. Stay Safe and thank you all for your support!” 
There is currently no news on if further weeks of the competition will be impacted by the outbreak and also be delayed, but if the virus is not contained in the coming days it seems likely there will be further postponements of the competition. 
As well as the return of the LPL being delayed, the LDL, China’s developmental League of Legends competition, has also been postponed. The LDL was due to get underway for the first time this year alongside week two of the LPL, but with the impact of the outbreak it too has been delayed. 
Week one of the LPL saw the best League of Legends teams in China fight it out for the first time in the 2020 season. JD Gaming, eStar, Invictus Gaming, Top Esports and Bilibili Gaming all started the competition perfectly by winning both of their opening games in the competition. However, with a 10 week regular season there is still a lot of time for teams that didn’t start off too hot to improve their records. 
Surprisingly reigning world champions FunPlus Phoenix, who took down European side G2 in the final of Worlds last November, lost both their opening matches in week one. However, we have seen world champions struggle before on their return to competition and often their raw talent comes through as the rift rust starts to wear off and they make a big comeback in the later stages of the Spring Split.