Man, 22, charged with murder after 'Polish' man stabbed to death in London 
 A MAN has been charged with murder after a man in his 60s was stabbed to death in east London.

Polish national Daniel Wycik has been charged with murder after a man died from fatal stab wounds in Clapton.

5

 Police were called to reports of a disturbance in Mount Pleasant Lane, ClaptonCredit: London News Pictures
5

 A man in his 60s died at the sceneCredit: London News Pictures
Police were called to an address in Mount Pleasant Lane shortly before 11.30pm on Friday following reports of a disturbance.

A man, believed to be a Polish national in his 60s, was found with stab injuries inside the property and despite the best efforts of paramedics, he was pronounced dead a short time later.

Mr Wycik, 22, of no fixed abode, was arrested at the scene and charged with murder on Sunday.

The Metropolitan Police said they believe the two men knew each other but they are not related.

Officers also said they believe they know the identity of the victim but they are waiting for formal identification.

A post-mortem examination will be scheduled in due course.

The news comes as stabbings continue to rise in London.

Exclusive



BRIT'S ALL OVER
 Meghan Markle abandons bid to become British citizen after moving to Canada 

Exclusive


HAD YOUR CHANCE
 Harry  Meg 'offered freedom to live without royal titles before wedding' 

ON EDGE
 NHS staff prepare for 'infectious' bodies as coronavirus 'will hit Britain in days' 

THUG MERC PLOT
 Couple battered at gunpoint by masked thugs  robbed of £9k in eBay car scam 

'I THOUGHT I'D KILLED HIM'
 Rugby teen battered world's worst rapist 'like a cage fighter' 

Warning


'SUFFER FOR LIFE'
 Mum's warning as son, 4, suffers horrific condition from a kiss as a baby 







Recent years have been the bloodiest in the capital with homicide rates reaching all-time highs.

Ten people on average are caught with blades every day on the streets of London with knife hotspots in South and East London.

Most recently three builders were stabbed to death in a shocking triple murder in Seven Kings, Redbridge.

5

 Police launched a murder investigation on FridayCredit: London News Pictures
5

 A forensic officer inside the property in east LondonCredit: London News Pictures
5

 Despite paramedics best efforts a man died at the sceneCredit: London News Pictures