Third US coronavirus case confirmed in California as China death toll rises 
 A third U.S. case of the deadly new coronavirus that has killed more than 50 people in China has been confirmed in Southern California.

The Orange County Health Care Agency’s Communicable Disease Control Division said the individual was hospitalized in isolation in good condition. The patient had traveled from Wuhan, a Chinese city of 11 million people that is the outbreak's epicenter.

The Orange County agency said the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention had confirmed the diagnosis. The agency was working with the CDC and state Health Department, following up with people who had been in close contact with the patient and are at risk of infection.

"The current risk of local transmission remains low," the agency said in a statement. "There is no evidence that person-to-person transmission has occurred in Orange County."

The CDC says people who have casual contact with a case, such as in the same grocery store or movie theater, are at minimal risk of developing infection.

The first U.S. case, a Washington state man in his 30s, was diagnosed Tuesday. A second case, a woman in her 60s, was reported Friday in Chicago.

The CDC says more U.S. patients are likely. The virus, first diagnosed in China last month, has infected at least 1,975 people and killed 56 people there, according to that nation's National Health Commission.

China Health Minister Ma Xiaowei said Sunday that it appeared the "ability of the virus to spread is getting stronger” and that it is infectious before symptoms show, a characteristic that could make it harder to contain.

“From observations, the virus is capable of transmission even during incubation period” of one to 14 days. Ma said. “There are hidden carriers.”

That makes this outbreak different from severe acute respiratory syndrome, SARS, a virus that was not contagious during incubation. SARS killed more than 600 people across mainland China and Hong Kong along with more than 100 other people around the world in 2002-2003.

The World Health Organization on Thursday declined to categorize the coronavirus as a global health emergency, lauding China for its efforts to contain the virus.

Chinese authorities have locked down Wuhan and at least two cities in an unprecedented effort to contain the virus during the busy Lunar New Year travel period. The U.S. closed its consulate in Wuhan and was pulling out its diplomats.

A small number of cases have also been diagnosed in Hong Kong, Macao, Thailand, Taiwan Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Nepal, France and Australia.

Coronavirus death toll rises to 56 in China: US diplomats prepare to leave Wuhan

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to pneumonia. Common signs of infection include fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties. In more severe cases, infection can cause severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and death.

Coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they are transmitted between animals and people. Many of the initial cases were linked to a seafood and meat market in Wuhan. Chinese health officials said human-to-human transmission has been confirmed.