Huawei poll: Should China be trusted with Britain's phone network? VOTE HERE 
 The Prime Minister has been warned he is on course for a diplomatic war with Donald Trump and a furious cabinet row if plans to give China access to Britain's network go ahead. Express.co.uk voters can now vote in our poll on whether they think China can be trusted with Britain’s phone network. It comes as Trump warned Mr Johnson on Friday night giving a green light to the deal would be a grave threat to national security.

It could risk a split in transatlantic relations which could overshadow Friday’s Brexit celebrations, which Mr Johnson has been working towards for three years.
An alternative to Huawei built by the UK and the US was supposedly suggested to the Prime Minister by Trump.
However, UK officials believe this would take too long.
Three US senators took unprecedented steps by writing to the National Security Council to urge ministers not to open the UK’s sensitive new telecoms network to the Asian technology giant.

Concerns are over Huawei's reportedly close links with Chinese intelligence.
Trump’s Treasury secretary, Steve Mnuchin, branded the Huawei deal as a threat to “critical” infrastructure.
He offered to “dedicate a lot of resources” to a US-UK trade deal this year if Britain fell into line.
The Huawei decision is expected to provoke a heated cabinet row on Tuesday.
JUST IN: Brexit news: EU’s empty threats won’t stop Brexit, says Steve Baker

One source compared the tech giant to the coronavirus.
They told The Sunday Times: “Huawei is next week’s Chinese virus.”
Home secretary, Priti Patel, and defence secretary, Ben Wallace, are “on the warpath” amid claims Whitehall officials “bounced” Mr Johnson into letting Huawei build “non-core” parts of the network.
DONT MISS
TRADE WAR: China ‘lining up countries’ to take on Trump [INSIGHT]
Ireland could VETO Brexit trade deal if UK splits from EU rules [LATEST]
Fears grow Boris Johnson’s phone may have been ‘hacked’  [UPDATE]

A senior official claimed Huawei would be “excluded from sensitive locations”.
This would include Westminster and the Royal Navy bases in Faslane, Devonport and Portsmouth.
The letter from the US senators claimed the integrated nature of Britain’s 5G network “eliminates” Mr Johnson’s argument Huawei will be confined to the “edges” of the network.

It warned: “The company’s actions show a clear record of predatory and problematic behaviour.
The letter concluded: “It is in the best interest of the United Kingdom, US-UK special relations, and the health and wellbeing of a well-functioning market for 5G technologies to exclude Huawei”
Culture secretary Baroness Morgan is expected to unveil the Huawei decision on Tuesday.