Coronavirus Live Updates: 1,000 More Cases Expected in Wuhan, Mayor Says 
 People wearing facemasks to help stop the spread of a deadly virus which began in the city, wait for medical attention at Wuhan Red Cross Hospital in Wuhan on Jan. 25, 2020. - The Chinese army deployed medical specialists on January 25 to the epicentre of a spiralling viral outbreak that has killed 41 people and spread around the world, as millions spent their normally festive Lunar New Year holiday under lockdown. (HECTOR RETAMAL/AFP via Getty Images)

Coronavirus Live Updates: 1,000 More Cases Expected in Wuhan, Mayor Says

Countries around the world are grappling with the current Novel Coronavirus outbreak. The virus is said to be transmitted from person to person in a similar way to the common cold and has infected nearly 2,000 people—with most cases occurring in mainland China.

The mayor of China’s Wuhan said Sunday he expects another 1,000 new cases of coronavirus patients in the city.

Zhou Xianwang told reporters that the city will construct more specialized hospitals to deal with coronavirus patients.

Wuhan, the epicenter of the virus outbreak, received a number of protective goods, glasses, and masks after people donated, he remarked.

Chinese regime officials announced a temporary ban on the trade of wild animals following the coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan.

Officials will “strengthen inspections and severely investigate and punish those who are found in violation of the provisions of this announcement,” according to a ban, reported The Associated Press. It said three government agencies issued the warning Sunday.

Now, no wildlife can be transported or sold in markets or over the Internet. To punish people, Chinese regime officials will send suspected violators to security services, and their properties will be closed and sealed off, AP reported.

“If these markets persist, and human consumption of illegal and unregulated wildlife persists, then the public will continue to face heightened risks from emerging new viruses, potentially more lethal and the source of future pandemic spread,” Christian Walzer, of the Wildlife Conservation Society, told AP. “These are perfect laboratories for creating opportunities for these viruses to emerge.”

A Southern California patient is the third person in the United States to be diagnosed with coronavirus, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), which confirmed the person is a traveler from Wuhan.

The person was identified in Santa Ana, located near Los Angeles, in Orange County.

The Orange County Health Care Agency said the person is in isolation at the hospital and is in good condition.

“The OC Health Care Agency’s (HCA) Communicable Disease Control Division received confirmation from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) this evening that an Orange County, California case has tested positive for the novel coronavirus,” the agency said in a statement.