Toronto’s coronavirus patient showed mild symptoms on his flight to Pearson | The Star 
 The man presumed to be infected with the coronavirus had symptoms of the illness while travelling on the plane to Toronto’s Pearson airport, Canada’s chief public health officer said Sunday.

“The latest information is that the patient had symptoms on the plane,” Dr. Theresa Tam told a press conference in Ottawa Sunday.

She said authorities are working to find passengers who were seated within a two-metre radius to the 50-year-old man on the plane, and all others who may have had contact with him on the plane. “We will be working very rapidly to do so,” Tam said.

“For the rest of the plane, if you don’t get a call from public health authorities that means you weren’t within the 2-metre radius,” Tam said, adding that passengers who are not contacted “should remain calm.”

The man arrived Wednesday on China Southern Airlines flight CZ311. He flew from Wuhan to Guangzhou and from there directly to Toronto. He was taken from the airport in a private vehicle and authorities say he had little contact with anyone since his arrival outside of his immediate family.

Asked repeatedly if the man had reported to Pearson airport authorities that he had been to Wuhan, the epicentre of the virus, Tam initially seemed to suggest he had not, but later suggested she didn’t know, stressing that airport protocols were followed.

“This patient may have had some mild symptoms, not something that would have been particularly obvious,” Tam said.

Tam said she expects laboratory confirmation on the presumed coronavirus infection within 24 hours.

Tam’s deputy, Dr. Howard Njoo, said it’s possible some passengers who were seated close to the patient live in provinces outside of Ontario.

Federal Health Minister Patty Hajdu stressed, however, that “the risk is extremely low for Canadians,” noting the virus is spread by droplets expelled from coughs or sneezes.

“There is no need for Canadians to be alarmed,” she told the press conference. “The risk remains low and people should continue their lives.”

Still, Tam said she expects more coronavirus cases will eventually be reported in Canada.

The United States government is sending a charter plane to fly its consular staff out of Wuhan. But Hajdu said the Canadian government is not at the moment planning a similar airlift for Canadians citizens who might be there.

The man believed to be infected called 911 the day after arriving from China. Tam said he gave his travel history to paramedics and told them his symptoms. He was taken by ambulance to Toronto’s Sunnybrook hospital with a fever and cough. Tests came back positive for coronavirus on Saturday and the man is now being treated in isolation in a “negative pressure” room at the hospital.

Officials described the man’s illness as “mild” and said he was in stable condition, showing early signs of improvement.

Toronto Public Health is investigating every place the patient may have visited and any people he came in contact with, said Dr. Eileen de Villa, Toronto’s medical officer of health, at a separate press conference on Saturday.

Heath officials around the world are working to contain the coronavirus, known as 2019-nCoV, which as of late Saturday had infected nearly 2,000 people and led to 56 deaths in China, where it originated. Despite its rapid spread, as of Sunday the virus had not been declared an international public health emergency by the World Health Organization.

Aside from China and Canada, cases have been reported in the U.S., Japan, South Korea, Thailand, Singapore, Vietnam and Hong Kong.