Major health stories last week 
 The outbreaks of two major diseases, coronavirus and Lassa fever, dominated the health scene last week. Nigeria is battling with Lassa fever from which, between January 1 to 24, 195 confirmed cases and 29 deaths have been recorded in 11 states.

Meanwhile on the international scene, the novel coronavirus which began from Wuhan province in China is spreading to other countries. As at Saturday, situation report from WHO shows that 1,320 confirmed cases have been reported for novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) globally.

Here is a roundup of some of the health stories last week.

Since the beginning of the year, Nigeria has been experiencing an increase in the number of Lassa fever cases and deaths. Between January 1 and 24, a total of 195 confirmed cases were reported from 11 states country, leading to 29 deaths.

This figure is expected to rise as more states have reported cases of the disease.

The research was conducted by Nigeria Health Watch and spanned 49 facilities in 44 local government areas

Presenting the report on Tuesday, the Director of Programmes at Nigeria Health Watch, Vivianne Ihekweazu, said the percentage of facilities that offer maternal and child health (MNCH) services is very low.

Since the first case of the Coronavirus was detected in December, at least 471 cases have been confirmed across China mainland, according to Chinese authorities. Cases have also been reported in South Korea, Thailand and Japan, and suspected cases detected in Australia.

The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control called for calm and urged travellers to submit themselves to routine health checks upon entry into the country.

The German Government has been a long-term supporter of the Polio Eradication Programme in Nigeria. It has provided tremendous financial support over the years with grants to fill critical funding gaps for vaccines and campaign operations across the country.

It, however, warned that there is an emergency in China.

WHO in a statement released after the Emergency Committee convened by the WHO Director-General said despite the spread of the dangerous respiratory infection from China to at least six other countries, the disease is yet to attain the official global emergency status.

The U.S. State Department said on Sunday it will evacuate personnel from its Wuhan consulate to the United States and will offer a limited number of seats to private U.S. citizens on a flight out of the epicentre of China’s coronavirus outbreak.

The State Department, in an emailed statement, said some private U.S. citizens will be able to board a “single flight” leaving Wuhan on January 28 bound for San Francisco, requesting those interested to contact the U.S. embassy in Beijing with their personal information.

“This capacity is extremely limited and if there is insufficient ability to transport everyone who expresses interest, priority will be given to individuals at greater risk from coronavirus,” said the statement.

Evidence from the new report revealed that smokers who quit approximately four weeks or more before surgery have a lower risk of complications and “better results six months afterwards”.

The study also shows that every tobacco-free week after four weeks (usage) improves health outcomes by 19 per cent, due to improved blood flow throughout the body to essential organs.

There is currently only one available vaccine, which is called bacillus Calmette–Guérin (BCG). Healthcare professionals administer the vaccine intradermally; that is, they inject it directly under the skin.

However, a research led by a professor of microbiology and molecular genetics at the University of Pittsburgh’s Center for Vaccine Research in Pennsylvania, JoAnne Flynn, suggests that administering the vaccine intravenously instead could drastically improve its efficiency.