Coronavirus fears force Sydney to host Olympic football qualifiers 
 Sam Kerr and Australia's national women's football team will now play Thailand, China and Chinese Taipei in Sydney

The Matildas' 2020 Olympic qualifying matches, which were due to be played in China early in February, have been moved to Sydney following an outbreak of the deadly coronavirus.

Australia's national women's football team will now play Thailand, China and Chinese Taipei in Sydney given Wuhan, the original host city, is in lockdown. The tournament had previously been moved to Nanjing because of Wuhan's unsuitability.

"FFA is happy and willing to organise this Olympic Qualification Tournament, and we look forward to hosting the women's senior national teams from China PR, Thailand and Chinese Taipei in February," FFA chairman Chris Nikou said.

"The safety of all players, officials and fans is of paramount importance to Football Federation Australia and the Asian Football Confederation, and we are confident we will host a successful tournament here in Sydney.

READ MORE:

 * Coronavirus: Olympic qualifiers in China cancelled, leaving Kiwi boxers stranded 

 * Coronavirus death toll in China rises, Hong Kong Disneyland closed, US to evacuate some citizens

 * Early detection and containment key for ending latest coronavirus outbreak

"I would also like to acknowledge the support of the Australian Government in enabling FFA to host this event at short notice."

This round of qualifying is scheduled for February 3-9. Four other teams will play in South Korea before the top two teams from each group meet in early March in the final qualifying round.

Three highly regarded teams - Australia, South Korea and China - are vying for two places in the 12-team Olympic competition.

Japan have secured their position as hosts and are not competing in Asian qualifying. North Korea withdrew from qualifying for reasons not divulged.

New Zealand have already booked their place at the 2020 Games after winning the Oceania Football Confederation (OFC) Women's Nations Cup in 2018.