Hong Kong blocks entry from virus province 
 Residents of the Chinese province where the new coronavirus outbreak was first reported will be banned from entering Hong Kong, as China tries to halt the rapid spread of the outbreak.
Health authorities around the world are racing to prevent a pandemic after more than 2000 people were infected in China and 56 died.
A handful of cases of infection have been reported in other countries, including Thailand, Australia, the US, France and Canada. No fatalities have been recorded outside China.
The outbreak originated in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province, and the Wuhan mayor said he expected another 1000 new patients in the city, which is stepping up construction of special hospitals.
China's National Health Commission Minister Ma Xiaowei said the incubation period for the virus can range from one to 14 days, during which infection can occur.
The Lunar New Year holiday, traditionally celebrated by hundreds of millions of Chinese travelling around the country and abroad to see family, began on Friday but has been severely disrupted by the outbreak.
Ma said China would intensify its containment efforts, which have so far included transport and travel curbs and cancellation of big events.
The country may extend the week-long holiday, state broadcaster CCTV reported, citing a meeting hosted by Chinese premier Li Keqiang.
The virus, believed to have originated late last year in a seafood market in Wuhan that was illegally selling wildlife, has spread to cities including Beijing and Shanghai.
The World Health Organisation this week stopped short of calling the outbreak a global health emergency, but some health experts question whether China can contain the epidemic.
WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he was on his way to Beijing to meet officials and health experts dealing with the coronavirus.
"My WHO colleagues  I would like to understand the latest developments  strengthen our partnership with China in providing further protection against the outbreak," he said on Twitter.
Chinese-ruled Hong Kong, which has six confirmed cases, will also ban entry from Monday to people who have visited Hubei province in the past 14 days, the city's government said. The rule does not apply to Hong Kong residents.
Hubei's governor Wang Xiaodong said on Sunday he felt "agonised" and responsible for the outbreak.
He described the situation as severe and said medical supplies were still tight.
China confirmed 2051 cases of infection as of 7pm local time on Sunday, while the death toll from the virus remained at 56, state broadcaster CCTV reported.
Airports around the world have stepped up screening of passengers from China, although some health officials and experts have questioned the effectiveness of these efforts.
Health officials in Orange County, California, said a third case had been registered in the US in a traveller from Wuhan, who was in isolation and in good condition.
China temporarily banned the sale of wildlife in markets, restaurants, and e-commerce platforms.