As of now, no Indian affected by coronavirus outbreak in China: MEA 
 The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on January 26 said that, as of now, no Indian in China has been affected by the coronavirus outbreak.

MEA added that the Indian embassy in Beijing is in close touch with all Indians, including university students, in Wuhan and elsewhere in Hubei province.

The death toll in the deadly new coronavirus in China rose to 56 on January 26 with confirmed cases of viral affliction reaching 2,008, including 23 from abroad.

The pneumonia outbreak was first reported in Wuhan City, central China's Hubei Province, in December 2019. The city of 11 million has been in quarantine since January 23 -- with nobody allowed to leave as the government tries to contain its spread.

Apart from Wuhan, 12 other cities have been completely sealed by the Chinese authorities to stop the virus from spreading.

External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is closely monitoring the situation, MEA spokesperson Raveesh Kumar said.

"We are also closely coordinating with Chinese authorities. As of now, we understand that no Indian citizens have been affected by the outbreak and that food and water supplies are available to them," Kumar tweeted.

He said the Indian Embassy in China has also made operational three helplines to respond to any concerns of Indians in that country.

"Our embassy in Beijing is in close touch with Indian citizens including students to extend assistance, including on possible travel options out of Hubei province," the MEA spokesperson said in another tweet.

He said the Indian embassy and Consulates General in China are working with Chinese authorities to try and facilitate Indian citizens caught up in these "difficult circumstances".

Earlier on January 26, Jaishankar said the Indian Embassy in Beijing is constantly checking on the health and well-being of Indians in China. Get access to India's fastest growing financial subscriptions service Moneycontrol Pro for as little as Rs 599 for first year. Use the code "GETPRO". Moneycontrol Pro offers you all the information you need for wealth creation including actionable investment ideas, independent research and insights & analysis For more information, check out the Moneycontrol website or mobile app.