Fourth U.S. Coronavirus Case Confirmed In Los Angeles County 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	The human coronavirus causes respiratory infections (colds), and gastroenteritis. Image made from a ... [+] transmission electron microscopy view. Approximate viral diameter: 80 to 160 nm.
Photo by: Cavallini James/BSIP/Universal Images Group via Getty ImagesTopline: Health officials confirmed on Sunday the fourth U.S. case of coronavirus in Los Angeles County.
The patient is a  returning traveler from Wuhan, China, the epicenter of the disease. “The infected person presented themselves for care once they noticed that they were not feeling well and is currently receiving medical treatment,” the Los Angeles Health Department said in a statement.
Local officials said there is no immediate threat to the general public and no special precautions are required. The health department said that people should not be excluded from activities based on their race, country of origin or recent travel if they are not showing signs of the illness. 
This is the second confirmed case in California and the fourth in the U.S.
Officials confirmed the third U.S. case in Orange County, California earlier Sunday. The other cases were verified earlier this week in Everett, Washington and Chicago. 
Chinese officials have so far reported 56 deaths and 2,000 more confirmed cases as the virus continues to spread to other countries.

Key background: U.S. officials are organizing a single flight to evacuate American diplomats and some private citizens in Wuhan as the State Department cautions travelers against flying to the region. Chinese officials, meanwhile, have restricted travel in and around Wuhan and say that experts expect to confirm another 1,000 cases of the patients they are monitoring. 
News peg: Ma Xiaowei, head of China’s National Health Commission, said Sunday he expects to see more cases of the virus because it is contagious during its incubation period—the time between when a person is infected and when symptoms present themselves. "Experts predict that the epidemic is now entering a more severe and complicated period,” Xiaowei said on Sunday, according to NBC News.