Brit stranded in coronavirus 'ground zero' with city deserted like zombie film 
 A British tourist stranded in coronavirus"ground zero" Wuhan faces running out of medication for bipolar disorder – as he blasted the government for doing “nothing” to help.

Patrick Brogan, 30, travelled to Wuhan to celebrate Chinese New Year with a friend on January 11.

Patrick, a train driver from Reading, intended to return to Britain on February 3.

But his flight was cancelled after the city was put on lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.

Patrick says he was informed by airline China Southern that all flights have been axed until March.

His medication is going to run out on February 6.

Speaking exclusively to Daily Star Online from a tower block in downtown Wuhan, Patrick said: “Imagine a scene out of 28 Days Later.

“There is no one on the streets, in a city bigger than London, it is weird.

“We have enough food to last us a week and we have water.

“I don’t know what we are going to do when we have run out.

“We don’t want to go outside.”

And he described seeing doctors and nurses masks and hazmat protective suits “falling apart”, as hospitals desperately try to claw back control of the crisis.

It comes amid reports that the Chinese government has covered up the true number of victims, with claims that up to 100,000 people have been infected.

Patrick emailed the British embassy in Beijing, China, to explain he was “completely running out” of medicine.

“All they said was wash your hands regularly”, he said.

“I have tried to look for the medication in China but I don’t speak enough Chinese and I can’t read it.”

Now Patrick is urging the British government to stop accepting flights from China – as he believes it is “inevitable” the virus will arrive here.

“They should send someone here, they don’t understand the gravity of the situation,” he said.

“I don’t know if China would let (repatriation) happen.

“But they should let us know they are trying to do something.”

Patrick added: "At the moment we don’t know how long we will be here for.

“Just someone saying we are talking to China, we are trying to sort something out.

“We have had nothing.

“It is all completely shut down and there is no way out at all.”

British doctors have warned the NHS is " completely unprepared for a pandemic" – as Health Secretary Matt Hancock insisted the NHS was "well equipped" to deal with "all eventualities".

Patrick hopes the World Health Organisation declares a global emergency over the crisis.

“Wuhan hasn’t got the capabilities to deal with what’s happening,” he added.

So far 14 Brits have tested negatively for the illness.

But it has spread to Europe – with three confirmed cases in France– as well as other victims in the US, Canada and Thailand.

An infected businessman is facing jail after lying about being exposed to the killer illness.

He failed to report having a fever while visiting Wuhan before flying home to Taiwan.

Chinese President Xi Jinping warned the “accelerating spread of the virus” has created a “grave situation”.