Coronavirus outbreak: Olympics football qualies switched from Wuhan to Sydney 
 OLYMPIC football qualifiers due to take place in China have been moved to Sydney after the Coronavirus outbreak in the country.

The Chinese Football Association today informed the Asian Football Confederation that it would be withdrawing from its hosting duties.

1

 China have relinquished their hosting duties as they battle the outbreak of CoronavirusCredit: Getty Images - Getty

Group B of the Women’s Olympic Football Asian Qualifiers Final Round were initially meant to take place in Wuhan - the city most affected by the deadly virus that has already claimed 56 lives.

The decision was initially made to move the event across the country to Nanjing - but the Chinese have now had to relinquish hosting duties altogether.

The event will still take place between February 3-7, with China, Australia, Thailand and Chinese Taipei instead set to battle it out in Sydney.

Upon accepting last minute hosting duties, Football Federation Australia chairman Chris Nikou said: "FFA is happy and willing to organise this Olympic Qualification Tournament, and we look forward to hosting the women’s senior national teams from China PR, Thailand and Chinese Taipei in February.

“The safety of all players, officials and fans is of paramount importance to Football Federation Australia and the Asian Football Confederation, and we are confident we will host a successful tournament here in Sydney.

“I would also like to acknowledge the support of the Australian Government in enabling FFA to host this event at short notice.”

The top two sides from the event will face the top two sides from Group A for the remaining places in the Olympic football event in the summer.

The outbreak, in which there have been over 2,000 cases, has also had an effect on China's domestic football calendar.


The Chinese Super Cup clash between champions Guangzhou Evergrande and cup holders Shanghai Shenhua, previously set for February 5, has been postponed.

And Shanghai SIPG's Asian Champions League clash with Buriram United will now take place behind closed doors.

Football has not been the only sport to have its schedule changed, with the Fed Cup tennis event set to take place in Dongguan now having been moved to Kazakhstan instead.




China sends army of soldiers into coronavirus epicentre as killer bug spirals out of control