Coronavirus death toll in China hits 56 as more than 2,000 people are infected 
 The death toll from the killer coronavirus has reached 56 while more than 2,000 have been infected.

These latest figures released on Sunday morning in China come after the nation's president spoke of the "grave situation" the virus posed.

Thus far, the fatalities have been confined to China. They have mainly been around the city of Wuhan, where the first cases were discovered and the virus is thought to have originated.

Cases have also been found in Thailand, Japan, South Korea, the US, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Nepal, France, Australia and Canada.

Some 31 people have been tested for the virus in the UK, though all results have come back negative.

China has put a reported 56 million residents on lockdown and put restrictions on the sale of wildlife in a bid to stop the spread. This comes after the virus travelled to other Chinese cities including Beijing and Shanghai.

President Xi Jinping told a policy meeting, aimed at looking for measures to fight the outbreak, that the virus was "accelerating its spread".

Medical workers have been among those infected, while Wuhan media reported a doctor died of the virus on Saturday. The 62-year-old worked at the ear, nose and throat department at Hubei Xinhua hospital.

Medical supplies are reportedly being rushed to the city, including 14,000 protective suits, 110,000 pairs of gloves and masks and goggles. While work to build new facilities to treat the virus are rapidly underway.

The National Health Commission said it is bringing in medical teams to help handle the outbreak. This comes after videos circulating online showed throngs of frantic people in masks lined up for examinations. There were also complaints that people were turned away at hospitals that were at capacity. The new virus comes from a large family of what are known as coronaviruses. It causes cold- and flu-like symptoms, including cough and fever, and in more severe cases, shortness of breath. It can worsen to pneumonia, which can be fatal. Around China, authorities cancelled a host of Lunar New Year events, and closed major tourist destinations and cinemas.