Schumer calls for feds to declare public health emergency as coronavirus threat grows 
 U.S. health officials need to declare a public health emergency to stop the spread of the deadly coronavirus, Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY) said Sunday.Schumer’s proposal came the same day the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed three new cases of the virus — two in Southern California and one in Arizona. Two previous cases of the disease were confirmed in Illinois and Washington state.The emergency declaration would allow the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to unlock up to $85 million in funding for programs and staffers that could help curb the spread of the virus, according to Schumer.“We’re not here to propel panic or stoke fear, but rather keep a good, proactive effort from the CDC from going interrupted,” said Schumer. “The funds the CDC needs are locked up, not nefariously, just bureaucratically. If things get worse, they’re going to need access to the funds.”Schumer’s proposed declaration would need to come from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The lockboxed money would come out of the Infectious Disease Rapid Response Reserve Fun, which got a boost in the federal budget last year.Health and Human Services representatives did not immediately respond to a request for comment Sunday.Almost 2,000 cases of the coronavirus have been identified in China this year, resulting in more than 50 deaths.The strain of virus was first detected by Chinese government officials on Dec. 31 in the city of Wuhan, where more than 11 million people live. The Chinese government last week closed all transportation in and out of the city to slow the spread of the virus.The disease has been linked to an unsanitary food market researchers say some of the people who contracted the virus likely consumed seafood or mammals from.Schumer said doctors across the U.S. need to be educated on the virus, and local governments need money for enhanced health screenings at travel hubs.“The whole country should be worried,” said Schumer. “The critical thing about these specific dollars is that the CDC has full discretion. The agency can use them for whatever activities it deems appropriate, so long as they inform Congress."