Fifth Australian coronavirus case imminent 
 NSW authorities are expected within hours to confirm the fifth Australian case of the deadly coronavirus, but the federal health minister says inbound flights from China will not yet be suspended.
NSW Health on Sunday said a patient had preliminarily tested positive to the virus and was undergoing further examination.
They have already been isolated in hospital and authorities were seeking to track down people who have been in recent close contact with the person.
The patient's coronavirus diagnosis is expected to be confirmed on on Monday.
Three patients in NSW and one in Victoria have already been diagnosed with the virus after an outbreak centred in the Chinese city of Wuhan.
Health Minister Greg Hunt on Monday said about 100 young Australians are situated in Wuhan, which has been locked down by Chinese authorities. The government is working to extract those children from the city.
But Mr Hunt said the government would not yet move to suspend flights from China, nor screen every passenger on board.
"Every flight is being met by officials, and officials I'm advised, will be boarding the flights and ensuring each individual who has travelled on those flights is directly receiving information," Mr Hunt told the ABC.
Foreign Affairs Minister Marise Payne said closing Australia's borders due to coronavirus "would be a very significant step".
It needs to be established how Australians would be evacuated and whether they need to be quarantined upon their return, Ms Payne said.
"We don't have a definitive number on the number of Australians in Wuhan or in Hubei province because it will include a significant number of dual nationals, some of whom may not have travelled on Australian passports, they've travelled on Chinese passports for example," she told 3AW on Monday.
Three men aged 35, 43, and 53 are being treated in a Sydney hospital for coronavirus but are listed as stable, and NSW Health Minister Brad Hazzard on Sunday said he was pleased with their progress.
Authorities have spoken to all but two people who have been in close contact with the three men since they arrived from China.
In Victoria, a man in his 50s is being treated at Monash Medical Centre while four of his family members are being quarantined at home.
Queensland chief health officer Dr Jeannette Young said authorities were attempting to contact four people who may have come into contact with the Victorian patient after sharing the same flight.
Australian chief medical officer Brendan Murphy said he had sent a letter to every GP in Australia, asking them to consider any recent arrival with flu-like symptoms a potential coronavirus case.
"They will probably turn out to be negative, but they should be treated that way, isolated and then referred to the nearest emergency department with calling ahead," Dr Murphy told ABC TV on Monday.
More than 2000 cases of coronavirus have been confirmed worldwide, most in China, while 56 people have died.
China's National Health Commission says the incubation period for the virus can range from one-to-14 days, during which infection can occur.