China shuts seafood market linked to mystery viral pneumonia outbreak 
 Chinese authorities shut a seafood market in the central city of Wuhan on Wednesday after workers were hospitalised with what is being termed an outbreak of viral pneumonia of unknown origin. Local media reports said the market sold other animals, including birds and marmots.
Alerts about the outbreak came from Wuhan health authorities on Tuesday, which said 27 people – most of them stallholders at the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market – were being treated, with seven said to be in a serious condition.
Pathology tests and investigations were under way to try and identify the virus, officials said.

A World Health Organisation official said on Wednesday the organisation was aware of the reports and had spoken to the Chinese government about the outbreak.
“Investigations are still being carried out and authorities cannot yet confirm what pathogen is causing this illness,” said Paige Snider, a senior adviser with the WHO in China.
“There are many potential causes of viral pneumonia, many of which are more common than Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome [Sars] coronavirus. WHO is closely monitoring this event and will share more details as we have them,” she said.
Online news outlet Hongxing, an affiliate of Chengdu Economic Daily, reported on late Tuesday that the market sold other wildlife, including pheasants and snakes. It also said rabbit and other animal organs were found in the market.
A seafood vendor surnamed Sun confirmed the Hongxing report, saying rabbits and snakes had been on sale.

Medical authorities in Hong Kong, about a four-hour high-speed train ride from Wuhan, said late on Tuesday they had stepped up border screening and put hospitals in the city on alert.
Yuen Kwok-yung, a microbiologist at the University of Hong Kong, noted similarities in the case with the 1997 outbreak of bird flu, and the severe acute respiratory syndrome epidemic of 2003.
He said there was no need to panic but the public should be on alert.
“There are chances that the virus was transmitted from animals to humans, but so far the authorities have not identified the virus,” he said on Tuesday before the Hongxing report.

Law enforcement officers wearing face masks were on guard outside the market on Wednesday morning as seafood vendors were allowed to remove their stocks, the official Yangtze Daily reported. The city’s health and commerce regulators issued the notice to close the market.
“After considering the municipal health commission’s report about the current pneumonia situation in the city, it is decided that Huanan seafood market will be closed for sanitation and renovation … the date for reopening will be announced later,” the notice said.
The 2002-03 Sars epidemic infected more than more than 5,300 people and killed 349 in mainland China. In Hong Kong, 1,750 people were infected and 299 died.
According to the WHO, the Sars coronavirus is thought to be an animal virus from an as-yet-uncertain animal reservoir, perhaps bats, that spread to other animals, such as civet cats, and first infected humans in Guangdong, near Hong Kong, in late 2002.

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

More from South China Morning Post:Hong Kong takes emergency measures as mystery ‘pneumonia’ infects dozens in China’s Wuhan cityChinese criminal gangs spreading African swine fever to force farmers to sell pigs cheaply so they can profitFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.