600 passengers screened at Auckland Airport for Coronavirus 
 Hundreds of passengers have been checked for the deadly new virus as they arrived in New Zealand.

Auckland Regional Public Health Service director Dr William More said more than 600 passengers travelling on flights into Auckland International Airport from China had been through screening by public health staff.

Four health protection officers and two public health nurses provided information to passengers on symptoms of coronavirus, he said. So far no one was displaying symptoms that required an health assessment.

Public health staff were also monitoring indirect flights that from China via Australia, he said.

READ MORE:

 * Air New Zealand share price drop follows international trend as coronavirus spooks investors

 * First case of deadly Chinese coronavirus in US

 * Human-to-human transmission confirmed in China coronavirus

 * China’s new virus: What you need to know

On Monday, flights from China into Auckland and Christchurch were being screened. A Wellington International Airport spokeswoman said as of Monday afternoon there were no current no screening in place, but this could change if advised by health officials.

Wellington has no direct flights to China but does have connections through Australia.

The "novel" strain of Coronovirus was first detected in Chinese city of Wuhan on 31 December. Since then, it has spread to 10 countries, including Australia, killing 56 people in China and 2014 infected.

Scientists have also confirmed that the virus can be transmitted human to human, and remained undetectable yet infectious for up to two weeks.

It has many similarities to the Sars outbreak in 2003, which resulted in cases in 19 countries and 774 deaths. Like Sars, symptoms are flu-like, and can include fever, coughing and difficulty breathing.

Associate Professor Siouxsie Wiles, from the University of Auckland's School of Biological Sciences, said news in the past fews days of likely human to human transmission and infections had elevated the seriousness of the outbreak.

"It looks like we are on the bad side of what we would expect," she said.

"It makes it more serious because it is much more difficult to contain if you can't see the symptoms."

On Sunday the World Health Organisation said there was a "high" global risk from the new virus, but Ministry of Health's advice is that risk of an outbreak in New Zealand remains low.

Wiles said she "would not be surprised" if there were confirmed cases in New Zealand. The priority would need to be containing the virus and preventing human to human transmission.

ESR expects to be able to test for the virus this week but in the meantime would send any samples of any suspected cases to Australia for testing.

ESR virologist Dr Erasmus Smit said no suspected cases had been tested to date. While there was a chance that New Zealand would see some cases so far, when the virus had spread outside China, it had been well contained.

"I'm a confident we would deal with them as well as other countries have."

Wiles said the risk to New Zealand would grow if the infection spread to major Chines cities with more regular connections to New Zealand, such as Shanghai and Beijing.