Sydney schools banning pupils at risk of coronavirus unless they are medically cleared 
 Several Sydney schools are banning pupils whose families have been to China from returning to classes, as precautions to stop the spread of coronavirus in Australia tighten.

The Scots College, Kambala School and Newington College have contacted parents warning students whose families had been to China would need a doctor's certificate before term one.

It comes as the NSW Department of Education encouraged principals to "monitor children and staff closely for any strange illnesses".

In an email to parents, The Scots College revealed it had received "several enquiries" about coronavirus.

"If your family has recently visited China, we ask that you refrain from sending your son/s to school until they have received a medical clearance from a doctor," the email read.

It said students who had been to China must "visit the College Clinic immediately for a preliminary check-up" before commencing the school term.

There are four confirmed coronavirus cases in Australia, including three in Sydney.

Eighty people are now dead worldwide as the deadly virus continues to spread, with 2,744 confirmed cases.

"The Scots College Parents' Association Cocktail Party will still go ahead on Tuesday 28 January, though if you have visited China during the holidays, we ask that you do not join us this year," the email continued.

The college also cancelled the Chinese New Year celebrations scheduled for January 31 "as a precautionary measure".

NSW Health said the primary symptom of the virus is fever but to also look out for a "cough, sore throat and shortness of breath".

In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia with severe acute respiratory distress.

It is thought to take between two and 14 days to see symptoms, though NSW Health said exactly how long it takes to incubate remains unknown.

There are no available vaccines that protect against coronavirus.

At the weekend, Australia's chief medical officer Brendon Murphy said every passenger from flights touching down in Australia from China would be given an information sheet asking them to identify if they have symptoms of the disease.

"There is no cause for general concern … there is no risk to Australian population other than people with that travel history or who have been in contact with those people," Professor Murphy said.

"The chances are they won't have this condition, the really important thing in Australia is we identify and be able to isolate people with this virus."