Economic zones being set up to boost industrial sector: CM Usman Buzdar 
 Economic zones being set up to boost industrial sector: CM Usman Buzdar

LAHORE:A delegation of young entrepreneurs headed by LDA Vice Chairman Sh Muhammad Imran called on Chief Minister Usman Buzdar.
The chief minister while talking to them said business environment in Punjab is highly conducive. Business pursuits are increasing due to business friendly policies of the PTI government, the CM said and added that the Punjab government has increased ease and facilitations for doing business.
File regarding industrialisation and investment is disposed of expeditiously and no hindrance is created at any stage. Ten special economic zones are being set up for promoting industrial sector and approval for six special economic zones has been granted, he maintained. Quaid-e-Azam Apparel Park near Lahore will be inaugurated in March. Four technical universities are being set up in the province. Industrialists will be given special privileges for setting up industries in special economic zones, he added.
Besides setting new industrial zones, old industrial estates will also be developed and upgraded. All possible facilitations will be provided to the investors and industrialists. New industrial policy will prove to be a game-changer with regard to promoting industries in Punjab, he stressed. In few years, employment opportunities will be provided to more than 15 lac skilled persons across the province and we will also review linking Lahore-Sialkot motorway with Gujranwala. Whereas with regard to regularising industries being established at Ferozpur Road, measures will be taken in the light of rules and regulations. No one will be allowed to create impediments in the process of escalating business activities, he emphasised.
uplift projects: Federal Minister Sahibzada Muhammad Mehboob Sultan, MNA Ahmed Hussain and Shahbaz Ahmad MPA called on Chief Minister Usman Buzdar at CM office in which matters pertaining to mutual interest and public welfare projects came under discussion.
Usman Buzdar while talking on this occasion said that a solid mechanism has been devised for transparent and timely completion of development projects across the province. Office of the chief minister is devoted to the service of the masses. Record legislation has been done in Punjab Assembly during brief span of time, he added.
coronavirus: Usman Buzdar has expressed concern over a few suspected cases of coronavirus. He directed the Health Department and provincial administration to undertake preventive measures to save people from this virus. The Health Department and other departments concerned should remain vigilant with regard to this virus and all necessary steps should be taken forthwith, he said and added that preventive measures being formulated by WHO should be implemented in letter and spirit.