Victorian schools instruct students at risk of coronavirus to miss first two weeks of term 
 "The School also understands that it is likely some families will remain in China
beyond the commencement of the school year due to travel restrictions in certain cities.
"The containment of such a virus is dependent on individual behaviour. Accordingly, we would ask you to consider whether you should delay your son’s return to school," it states.
The letter says students who visited Wuhan City and surrounding areas, where the virus started and has now spread to almost 3000 cases in China, over the school holidays should wait 14 days after returning to Australia before they attend school again.
"As school starts for a number of boys on 30th January, your son would need to have been back in Australia by Thursday, 16th January, and clear of symptoms, to commence on Day 1."

Firbank Grammar principal Jenny Williams warned in a letter that students who visited anywhere in China during the holidays and have symptoms such as a fever and cough should avoid attending school.
Loading
Those who visited Wuhan City, in Hubei province, or came into close contact with someone who did should also self-isolate or stay in China, the letter states.
"Students who do not fall into one of the above groups but have travelled to China will be monitored on a daily basis by Firbank health staff," it reads.
Other schools to have contacted parents include Firbank Grammar, Haileybury, Caulfield Grammar, Waverley Christian College, Methodist Ladies College and Balwyn High School.

Meanwhile, a Chinese man in his 50s remains in a stable condition in quarantine at the Monash Medical Centre in Melbourne, while on Sunday Victorian authorities said 11 more people were awaiting test results.
Haileybury vice-principal Scott Doran said in a letter that any students who have recently returned from affected regions or been in contact with others who have should "not attend school and seek medical advice as soon as possible".
"Haileybury’s qualified nursing staff based at each campus are positioned to respond immediately to any reported symptoms should this occur," the letter reads.
Chinese authorities said on Monday that the Coronavirus outbreak has killed 80 people in China, up from 56 on the weekend.
Chinese state radio reported on Monday that schools and universities in Beijing had already delayed their reopening.

The Victorian education department is yet to issue public advice regarding coronavirus.

Michael is a reporter for The Age.