The Alfred hospital deals with multiple suspected cases of coronavirus 
 “We’re having to keep a close eye on everything. We’re getting a few suspected cases, but we have had no positive cases,” said Professor Allen Cheng, director of the infection prevention unit at Alfred Health.
“All the cases we know of at this stage have been linked to Wuhan. We’re not yet getting cases from elsewhere.
“There are transmissions that have occurred in hospitals in this outbreak, but Chinese hospitals are different to ours, so we’d hope we’d be pretty vigilant about this thing.”
2019-nCoV, the official designation for the new virus, emerged in December in the Chinese city of Wuhan, and has spread through the country – and now the world. As of Monday, there were 2744 confirmed cases in China and 80 deaths.
Australia’s extensive links with China mean we are certain to see several infections here, particularly as the virus has spread across China.

There is one confirmed case in Victoria, with another 11 people undergoing testing.
It shares similarities with SARS, a coronavirus that spread from animals to humans in southern China in 2002, infecting 8098 people and killing 774.
That virus tended to affect hospitals, sweeping through wards of already-sick people, says Professor Raina MacIntyre, head of the Biosecurity Research Program at the Kirby Institute in Sydney.
“That’s where we saw the big outbreaks. Once people realised what the main transmissions modes were, they tailored all their interventions and it stopped.”

Australia’s healthcare system is gearing up to prevent something similar happening here.
A test for the virus has been designed, and a network of testing labs around the country has been activated.
Loading
Victoria’s health department has set up a dedicated coronavirus hotline. Anyone who has recently travelled to Wuhan and has flu-like symptoms is asked to call the hotline rather than turning up at a GP’s office or hospital – a measure designed to prevent the infection from spreading.
Doctors are being asked to take full travel histories from anyone with symptoms of pneumonia.

Professor MacIntyre fears GPs are not ready.
“I don’t believe GPs' surgeries are at all well-prepared. At the moment we have a shortage of masks. If you walk into a chemist you won’t be able to get one,” she said.
Loading
Much of the work to prepare for an incoming virus is being done quietly and behind the scenes, says Associate Professor Ian Mackay, an infectious disease expert at the University of Queensland.
“We have systems in place, we have protocols, we have expert committees and teams, we have Commonwealth disease networks, testing networks that all communicate with each other. And right now the phone lines are running hot,”

“We are as good as any country in the world at this.”
with AAP

Liam is The Age and Sydney Morning Herald's science reporter