The 2020 Grammy Awards in the wake of Kobe Bryant's death reminded us how music can heal 
 In times of tragedy, entertainment can feel like a trivial thing to focus on. Sunday night's Grammy Awards are a prime example of how music can help us heal.

The world is mourning Kobe Bryant, 41, who died Sunday along with his 13-year-old daughter Gianna. There's anxiety over coronavirus spreading globally and a presidential impeachment trial going on. A lot is weighing on us right now.

Even with the Recording Academy itself wrapped in controversy, the award show felt like a much-needed group hug: A place to mourn the pain felt right now and escape for a little while.

"We’re all feeling crazy sadness right now because earlier today Los Angeles, America and the whole wide world lost a hero," host Alicia Keys said at the top of the show. "And we’re literally standing here, heartbroken, in the house that Kobe Bryant built. Right now Kobe and his daughter Gianna and all those who have been tragically lost today are in our spirits our hearts, our prayers. They’re in this building ...We never imagined in a million years we’d have to start the show like this."

Keys went on to applaud artists and encourage them to continue creating music "because I know how much Kobe loved music.

"So we've got to make this a celebration in his honor," she added. "He would want us to keep the vibrations high. Music is that one language we can all speak. No matter where we're from, we all understand it."

There were touching tributes to Bryant (Keys and Boyz II Men singing an a cappella duet of "It's So Hard to Say Goodbye to Yesterday"), Prince (Usher with a medley of the late icon's songs) and Nipsey Hussle (John Legend, DJ Khaled, Meek Mill, Roddy Ricch, Kirk Franklin and YG with "Letter to Nipsey" and "Higher").

Camila Cabello paying tribute to her dad and Ariana Grande changing the lyrics in "Thank U, Next" to dub her father "really awesome" felt all the more poignant given the circumstances. Demi Lovato performed an emotional rendition of her song "Anyone" about searching for light through the darkness.

"Today has been an emotional day in Tinseltown and the ripples have been felt across the globe," tweeted user @joeypurple, thanking Lovato in particular for her performance. "The #Grammys brought people together to heal this year & it felt like a celebration of life more than anything. Music really does make the world to round."

Those artists opening up about pain and hardship helped the rest of us realize we're not alone. Acknowledging and working through hard times together helps lift that collective weight.

Those watching the award show concurred: "The Grammys have been oddly comforting tonight," tweeted @jimclasshero_. @NoLimitDirty added the show was "making me feel a bit better and I normally don’t like this stuff."

"Thank you to literally EVERY artist out there," @AshRich0812 posted. "Music truly does heal. So many artists in every genre imaginable has helped me get to where I am today. Everything I am was inspired in some way by music."

"So many moving moments," added @artist_haley. "Like @aliciakeys said, music has the power to heal. May we do it together."

And then there were instances invoked just to make us smile: Keys' "Someone You Loved" parody sweetly name-dropping big stars in the industry, Lil Nas X's wildly fun "Old Town Road" collaboration mashup and Lizzo's fan-favorite flute jamming to "Truth Hurts."

"Music is so beautiful," wrote @johndgruber. "I feel better after watching the nip and Kobe tribute."

Those portions are important too because moments of joy give us a way to escape, even for just a little while.

The world feels hectic and messy and unfair right now. But the Grammys reminded us that there's light beyond the darkness, and we're not alone.