11 foreigners under probe for suspected Wuhan coronavirus infection 
 The Department of Health on Monday confirmed that there are 11 foreigners who are being monitored for possible infection from the Wuhan coronavirus.

Health Secretary Francisco Duque said the 11 are from the following regions: Metro Manila, Mimaropa, Western Visayas, Eastern Visayas, Central Visayas and Northern Mindanao. All of them are foreigners of the following nationalities: Chinese, Brazilian, German and American.

The 11 recently traveled to Wuhan, China, he said.

“There are 39 novel coronavirus related health events that have been reported to the Epidemiology Bureau of the DOH,” he said.

"Eleven of the 39 accounts for 26 percent are patients under investigation.”

The health secretary reiterated that there is still no confirmed case of novel coronavirus (nCoV) in the Philippines. A 5-year-old child suspected of nCoV also tested negative based on tests done on his samples by the Victorian Infectious Diseases Reference Laboratory.

“Let us not be party to the viral spread of infodemic, to the viral spread of false, fake news because this will not do any good,” Duque said of rumors spreading that there are confirmed cases of nCoV in some hospitals in Metro Manila.

Among the symptoms shown by those with the novel coronavirus are fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties. In more advance cases, it can result in pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), kidney failure and death, Duque said.

However, the secretary pointed out that the global fatality rate for nCoV is at 2.7 percent only, which is considered low compared to Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) with a fatility rate of 34 to 26 percent and SARS with a fatality rate of 10 to 12 percent.

The novel coronavirus is a new strain of coronavirus not previously identified in humans. It belongs to a large family of viruses that includes the common cold but also severe illnesses such as the MERS-CoV and SARS CoV.