Fifth Australian coronavirus case confirmed as Chinese death toll rises 
 A 21-year-old New South Wales university student has been confirmed as the fifth person in Australia to have contracted the coronavirus, as the death toll in China hits 80.

NSW health authorities made the announcement on Monday afternoon after revealing on Sunday that a preliminary test had returned a positive result.

The woman, who was not identified by health authorities, had recently travelled back to Sydney on a direct flight from the central Chinese city of Wuhan, where the virus originated.

After developing symptoms, she presented herself to an emergency department and is now being treated at Sydney's Westmead Hospital.

NSW Health Minister Brad Hazzard said all of the infections had taken place in China and there was no evidence to suggest the virus had been passed between people in NSW.

Mr Hazzard urged anyone showing symptoms of an illness to treat it "carefully and cautiously" until tests for the coronavirus could be completed, but assured reporters that there was no need to panic.

"If you're showing symptoms, keep yourself in isolation, keep yourself away from other people, wear the mask if you've got one available, and make the contact [with health professionals]," he said.

Three men aged 35, 43, and 53 are also being treated for the virus in a Sydney hospital but are understood to be in a stable condition.

In Victoria, a man in his 50s is being treated at Monash Medical Centre while four of his family members are being quarantined at home.

Speaking to ABC News on Monday morning, Chief Medical Officer Brendan Murphy said it was likely the number of cases in Australia would increase.

"We are clearly concerned about what's happening in China, it does seem that the outbreak is not contained," he said.

"But we don't know of any proven evidence of human to human transmission outside of the [Chinese] Hubei province, where there's clearly human to human transmission, and our aim in Australia is to make sure that that never happens, that every case that comes here is detected and appropriately isolated and looked after."



The death toll from the virus has reached least 80 in China, with more than 2700 confirmed cases across more than 40 countries globally.

The virus, believed to have originated late last year in a seafood market that was illegally selling wildlife, has spread to Chinese cities including Beijing and Shanghai, as well as the United States, Thailand, South Korea, Japan, France and Canada.

More to come