Chinese student understood to be fifth Australian to contact coronavirus 
 A fifth person in NSW has tested positive for the deadly coronavirus which has killed 80 people in China.

On Sunday evening, a NSW Health spokesperson confirmed there was one potential case of the coronavirus under investigation in NSW, after preliminary test results came back positive.

“Public health follow-up of this probable case is being undertaken in accordance with the national guidelines and the patient remains in isolation,” the NSW Health spokesperson said in a statement to Yahoo News Australia on Monday.

“Of the five cases that were under investigation today, four have now been cleared of the infection.

“We will update the public immediately should this case be confirmed.”

On Monday morning, the Australian Government’s Department of Health Chief Medical Officer confirmed the fifth potential case this morning, which he believes will be confirmed today.

“Yes, I can tell you that this is a young woman, a Chinese student who has come from China and like all of the cases in Australia, they have come from China,” Professor Murphy told the Today Show.

Professor Murphy stressed there is no evidence the disease has spread to Australia, adding the student is in isolation and treated as though she has tested positive until the final confirmation.

“But NSW Health feel that she's likely to be the fifth case in this country. And as I’ve said previously, we’re not surprised, given the traffic from that part of China, the Hubei province to Australia, particularly before the Chinese locked it down last week,” Professor Murphy said.

“We have suspected that there’d be cases and we probably will see more over the coming days.”

Three patients in NSW have been diagnosed with the virus, and one case has been confirmed in Victoria.

The three men in NSW are aged 35,43 and 53 and are being treated in a Sydney hospital.

Authorities have now spoken to all but two people who have been in close contact with the three men since they arrived from China.

The 50-year-old old man from Victoria is being treated at the Monash Medical Centre and his family members are being quarantined at home.

More than 2,700 cases have been confirmed in China, and the death roll has risen to 80. Cases have also been confirmed in Thailand Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, the US, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Nepal, France, Canada and Australia.

Do you have a story tip? Email: newsroomau@yahoonews.com.

You can also follow us on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter and download the Yahoo News app from the App Store or Google Play.