UNSW student tests positive for coronavirus to become fourth case in NSW 
 In a statement, UNSW said the woman "did not attend any classes at the university and stayed on her own in campus accommodation with no close contact before she was admitted to hospital".
"UNSW extends its best wishes to the student for a speedy recovery," the statement said.
Three men aged 53, 43 and 35 are also isolated in Westmead Hospital in stable conditions after returning from China. Another man from China remains in quarantine in Melbourne after he was the first to test positive for the virus in Australia.
On Monday, China's government said the death toll from coronavirus had risen to 80, with more than 2700 confirmed cases of infection. Cases of coronavirus have been reported in Hong Kong, Macau, Thailand, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, USA, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Nepal, France and Canada.
NSW Health Minister Brad Hazzard said it was important to emphasise that there is no evidence of infection from person-to-person contact in Australia, which has happened overseas.

He said it's "clearly concerning" that a further six cases are under investigation in NSW, but said each will remain in isolation while testing is done.
Dr Chant said there are not yet any preliminary results which indicate the six are infected. All six, who are a range of ages, had visited China.
Authorities in Australia currently believe the virus can only spread once a person begins showing symptoms. A daily press conference will be held in NSW to address the community as new information emerges.
Dr Chant said school-aged children who have recently returned from Hubei province, of which Wuhan is the capital, should be tested if they have coronavirus symptoms including a fever, coughing, a sore throat or a headache.
Children who have been in close contact with a confirmed case of coronavirus have also been advised to stay away from school for 14 days.

Dr Chant said it was also generally recommended that children with other sicknesses including the flu should stay home until they are well.
Mr Hazzard said anyone who begins showing coronavirus symptoms should isolate themselves and wear a surgical mask if they have one available. He said if they do have symptoms, they should not attend school or university.
Asked if he would be comfortable sending his children to school this week, Mr Hazzard responded, "Absolutely".

Georgina Mitchell is a court reporter for The Sydney Morning Herald.