How To Salvage A Sinking SECNAV Nomination 
 Ambassador Braithwaite's nomination is in trouble
Department of StateWith only nine months left before the 2020 Presidential election, the nomination of Ambassador Kenneth Braithwaite to serve as America’s 77th Navy Secretary is on life support. 
At best, Braithwaite’s nomination for Secretary of the U.S. Navy has stalled. After being “nominated” two months ago by presidential tweet, Braithwaite has neither been officially nominated nor has his name been sent to the Senate for confirmation. 
The delay is likely due to vetting challenges. CBS News reports that Braithwaite failed to report a business relationship with Cambridge Analytica, a now defunct company at the heart of the 2016 presidential election. Resolving this issue will require a nasty post-impeachment political fight, and then, if successful, the task of getting the nominee up to speed puts the U.S. Navy at real risk at a particularly sensitive moment.
Given the critical challenges facing the Navy, it might be best to shelve Braithwaite’s nomination until a second Donald J. Trump term. Rather than sit in some sort of useless Washington DC purgatory, over the short term, an asset like Ambassador Braithwaite can used more effectively elsewhere in the Administration. 
Philip Bilden's nomination to SECNAV collapsed in early 2017
CC BY-SA 4.0Is Braithwaite Bildening?
There is no indication yet that Braithwaite will suffer the same ignominious fate as Philip Bilden, Donald J. Trump’s first failed nominee for Navy Secretary. 
The parallels are obvious. Philip Bilden, a military intelligence officer with deep professional experience in China, was initially embraced as an ideal candidate, ready to address China’s naval buildup. But the nomination ran aground as investigators started digging into Bilden’s years as an up-and-coming Hong Kong-based financier. 
After a month of intensive investigation by the Senate, Bilden withdrew his nomination in February 2017. 
Like Bilden, the tweet-nomination of Kenneth Braithwaite in November 2019 was met with excitement. A naval aviator and polished media expert, the high-speed former Flag Officer, fresh from a diplomatic posting that focused upon confronting a resurgent Russia, seemed like the right person at the right time. A number of observers breathed a sigh of relief. 
But, again, like Bilden, Ambassador Braithwaite’s professional activities have sent the nomination into dangerous ground. According to CBS News, leaked documents suggest Braithwaite failed to disclose an agreement to serve as something of a salesman for Cambridge Analytica—a discredited purveyor of targeted internet dis-information for political campaigns. A controversial Russia-linked company, Cambridge Analytica supported the UK Brexit referendum as well as the election of Donald J. Trump. 
Internal Cambridge Analytica documents suggest Braithwaite was a “Referral Partner” between November 1, 2016 and October 31, 2017, with his relationship ending days after his October nomination to serve as the Norwegian Ambassador. CBS News noted, “a willful failure to include a job or consulting position on the Office of Government Ethics Form 278e can be a violation of federal law.”
Even if the failure to disclose proves to be a simple oversight, the timing certainly isn’t great. Between Braithwaite’s 2017 nomination in late October and his December 2017 confirmation, several news organizations were investigating Cambridge Analytica. Braithwaite, a seasoned media pro, was in a position to know the risk posed by disclosing this relationship. In such a heated media environment, presenting the Senate with evidence of a nominee’s link to Cambridge Analytica at that time would have been political suicide. 
The investigations into Cambridge Analytica were fatal. By March 2018-a mere month after Braithwaite had presented his credentials in Oslo-Cambridge Analytica’s sleazy and illicit practices exploded into the public domain. On May 1, 2018, Cambridge Analytica halted operations. 
In the event that Braithwaite’s omission was deliberate, it will put him at immediate odds with Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Michael Gilday. The Admiral has made ethics a central tenant of his tenure, writing in a December 19 message to the Fleet that all naval personnel “must be men and women of integrity. We must be honorable. We must be standard-bearers. We must be above reproach. And we must not give anyone cause to question our fundamental values.” A messy confirmation hearing would make a mockery of Gilday’s work in building a force that “owns” ethical behavior “at every level”. 
There Is No Need To Rush
Traumatic as it was, the collapse of the Bilden nomination back in early 2017 demonstrated there is no need to subject both the U.S. Navy and the Donald J. Trump Administration to a bruising conformation process right away.
There is no rush. The Navy has repeatedly demonstrated that it harbors a strong bench of backup leaders. When the Bilden nomination crashed and burned, the underestimated Sean Stackley ran the Navy’s front office for 195 days, and today, an often-underestimated Acting Secretary Thomas B. Modly is quietly keeping the Navy moving forward. 
If the Braithwaite nomination is in real trouble, it might be smarter to put the nomination on hold until after the Presidential election, and, in the near term, have Ambassador Braithwaite do something else that does not require Senate confirmation. For example, Braithwaite could be appointed as an emergency “Coronavirus Czar”, serving as the face of what may well be a massive mobilization of American medical power. After an extensive post-Navy stint as an executive with a hospital administration/healthcare company, the telegenic and crisis-tested Ambassador may be exactly the type of person the Donald J. Trump Administration needs to manage medical logistics if the coronavirus outbreak surges out of China to threaten the United States.