Coronavirus cases highly likely to arrive in NZ, health officials say as they seek extra quarantine powers 
 Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield says there is a high likelihood of NZ getting a case of the coronavirus.

There is a high chance that deadly coronavirus will make it to New Zealand, but health officials are confident they can prevent an outbreak.

Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield and Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay briefed media in Wellington about the risk of the virus arriving.

"At this stage we don't have any cases. There is a high likelihood we will."

Bloomfield said cases in New Zealand of the new outbreak, which has killed at least 80 people and infected thousands overseas, were likely. 



READ MORE:

 * Air New Zealand share price drop follows international trend as coronavirus spooks investors

 * First case of deadly Chinese coronavirus in US

 * Human-to-human transmission confirmed in China coronavirus

 * China's new virus: What you need to know

There was a low to middling chance the virus would spread once it was in New Zealand and a low chance there would be an outbreak on the scale of measles, he said.

This assessment was based on growing number of countries that had reported cases of the disease, including Australia.

"The likelihood of us getting a case is high and it may well be, as in Australia, that the person that is subsequently diagnosed had travelled and was asymptotic but developed symptoms a few days later. We may find ourselves in a similar situation."

He said hospital ICU units were already stepping up in preparation for the possibility of severely ill people with the virus. This was because while the virus was unlikely to kill anyone in New Zealand, figures out of China show about one-in-five people who were infected became severely ill.

Bloomfield said about 2000 passengers arrived from China at New Zealand airports daily and they would continue to be checked by public health officials.

The ministry was also considering expanding its airport check to incoming flights from Australia that may have patients who had travelled from China. This would drastically increase the scale of public health operation.

However, because people could be infectious despite showing no symptoms while passing through airports, it would be just as important to monitor patients in the community, he said.

The Ministry of Health has asked Cabinet to make the virus a notified disease in a meeting on Tuesday. This would give public health officers the power to forcibly quarantine people suspected of infection.

McElnay said the ministry did not believe these powers would be needed, but it was important to have them in place if infection spread rapidly.

Bloomfield said a cross-border response group met on Friday, initially focusing on Christchurch and Auckland airports.

There are about 21 New Zealanders registered on Safe Travel as being in Wuhan City, where the outbreak was first detected.

In a statement, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade said it had received a small number of requests for consular assistance from New Zealanders in Wuhan city and Hubei province. The embassy in Beijing was providing assistance to those individuals and families.

Three tourists in Rotorua have been checked for coronavirus while hundreds of passengers have been monitored for symptoms as they arrived in New Zealand.

The trio was assessed at Rotorua Hospital after concerns they may have been exposed to a confirmed case of the virus on an earlier flight.

They were part of a tour group of 19 who were assessed at the Bay of Plenty hospital on Sunday. Health services had been alerted to concerns they may have been in contact with someone infected with coronavirus on a flight to Sydney on January 20.

The tour group arrived in Auckland on Saturday evening from Australia and then travelled to Rotorua. The group were firstly assessed by St John paramedics and then three people were taken to Rotorua Hospital's emergency department for further assessment.

While they were found to have no symptoms that would indicate infection with the virus, a range of tests were taken for processing, a statement from the Lakes District Health Board said.

Expert advice was obtained from the Ministry of Health and Infectious Disease specialists and the three patients were able to be discharged on Sunday evening to re-join their tour group.

Toi Te Ora Public Health medical officer of health Dr Neil de Wet said public health services were continuing to follow up and monitor the group and were reviewing whether any further measures were necessary.

"Symptoms of the coronavirus include fever, cough, and trouble breathing, and can appear anywhere from two to 14 days after exposure. Local public health services have been working closely with the Ministry of Health to ensure appropriate protocols are followed and any risk to the public is managed appropriately."

DHB staff were aware of the need to be vigilant for signs and symptoms of people who may present to the emergency departments with flu-like symptoms, Lakes DHB chief executive Nick Saville-Wood said.

"DHB staff are working closely with Toi Te Ora Public Health to keep health professionals across the Lakes district informed of the risk."

Flights from China into Auckland and Christchurch were being met by health officials on Monday.

By Monday evening, public health staff had met 1057 passengers from four flights from mainland China at Auckland Airport. None displayed symptoms of coronavirus.

Auckland Regional Public Health Service director Dr William Rainger said four health protection officers and two public health nurses gave passengers information on coronavirus symptoms. So far no-one had symptoms that required a health assessment.

Public health staff were monitoring indirect flights from China via Australia, Rainger said.

One flight from Guangzhou, where there have been confirmed cases of coronavirus, arrived at Christchurch International Airport about 4.50pm on Monday.

Angel Ni, who came to visit family, said she was wearing a face mask on the flight to protect herself and others.

"I am not worried for myself or others, I am just being safe," she said.

Ni said it seemed like a normal flight and no-one seemed to have any symptoms.

"I wore the mask on my own, no-one on at the airport or on plane talked about virus, [the] flight was very normal and all good."

Two international students who were on the plane from Guangzhou said it was just like any other flight.

"The only difference was some people were there when we arrived that looked like they were checking symptoms, but they didn't check us," one student said.

The second student said they both chose to wear face masks as a precaution.

"No-one spoke to us about the virus at the airport or on the flight, we just already know about this and so we wanted to wear the masks."

Wellington has no direct flights to China but does have connections through Australia.

A Wellington International Airport spokeswoman said as of Monday afternoon no screening was happening, but this could change if advised by health officials.

"It is understandable to have concern about this unfolding health issue, but it will never be acceptable to descend to racism and xenophobia.

"We must all unite to demonstrate zero tolerance in regard to any such behaviour ... This is a time to show a bit of humanity and kindness to our visitors."

There are concerns the coronavirus will hurt New Zealand's tourism industry though.

The "novel" strain of Coronovirus was first detected in Chinese city of Wuhan on 31 December. Since then, it has spread to 10 countries, including Australia, killing at least 80 people in China and infecting more than 2700.

Scientists have confirmed the virus can be transmitted human to human, and remains undetectable yet infectious for up to two weeks.

It has many similarities to the Sars outbreak in 2003, which resulted in cases in 19 countries and 774 deaths. Like Sars, symptoms are flu-like, and can include fever, coughing and difficulty breathing.

Associate Professor Siouxsie Wiles, from the University of Auckland's School of Biological Sciences, said news in the past fews days of likely human to human transmission and infections had elevated the seriousness of the outbreak.

"It looks like we are on the bad side of what we would expect," she said.

"It makes it more serious because it is much more difficult to contain if you can't see the symptoms."

Numerous pharmacies have run out of face masks as concerns drive demand.

Remedy Pharmacy owner and pharmacist Eddie Ho estimated his Christchurch pharmacy had sold up to 600 masks in just over a week. He was out of stock and waiting for a new delivery within the next couple of days.

On Sunday the World Health Organisation said there was a "high" global risk from the new virus, but the Ministry of Health's advice is that risk of an outbreak in New Zealand remains low.

Wiles said she "would not be surprised" if there were confirmed cases in New Zealand. The priority would need to be containing the virus and preventing human to human transmission.

ESR expects to be able to test for the virus this week but in the meantime would send any samples of any suspected cases to Australia for testing.

A Ministry of Health spokesperson said two samples had been sent to Australia for testing so far.

 

 "The first has returned a negative result. The second, which is being sent for testing, has a low index of suspicion."

ESR virologist Dr Erasmus Smit said while there was a chance New Zealand would get some cases, so far when the virus had spread outside China, it had been well contained.

"I'm a confident we would deal with them as well as other countries have."

Wiles said the risk to New Zealand would grow if the infection spread to major Chinese cities with more regular connections to New Zealand, such as Shanghai and Beijing.