Flight to Safety Pounds Commodity Markets Rattled by Virus Fears 
 (Bloomberg) -- Commodity investors are taking flight as fears deepen that the spread of coronavirus could curtail China’s demand of everything from crude oil to rubber.

Prices are spiraling as the death toll rises in China and an increase of new cases emerge around the globe. The country extended its Lunar New Year holiday amid government reports that the infection’s spread was accelerating.

The traders who keep commodities flowing in and out of the world’s biggest consumer would typically be expecting an up-tick in demand after a lull during the Lunar New Year holidays that officially started last week. But the rapid spread of coronavirus means this isn’t a typical year.

“We should short everything,” said Jia Zheng, a portfolio manager at hedge fund Shanghai Minghong Investment Management Co. “With the spread of the epidemic, the domestic consumer market will shrink sharply, and construction will be delayed after the holiday.”

The Bloomberg Commodity Total Return Index slid 0.7% on Monday, taking its losses over the past five days to almost 4%. A close at this level would be its lowest since September.

Oil is copping a lot of the pressure on speculation that curtailed travel and industrial activity as a result of the virus could hit demand for fuel. Brent crude tumbled more than 3% in early Asian trade on Monday after capping its longest run of weekly losses since June.

While Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has predicted that global oil demand may take a hit, the sell-off has prompted OPEC behemoth Saudi Arabia to say it is seeing “very little impact” on consumption so far.

Base metals and bulk commodities including copper and iron ore -- closely aligned to China’s industrial activity -- are also getting hurt. Copper’s caught in its heaviest streak of losses since 2014 with futures sliding a further 1.5% on the LME on Monday. Iron ore in Singapore had its biggest intraday decline since August.

“Since the news of the outbreak last week, we have closed our entire exposure in crude oil and copper as well as trimming exposure in stocks,” said Nader Naeimi, head of dynamic markets at AMP Capital Investors Ltd. in Sydney, which manages about $46.8 billion. “What we are seeing now is a classic black swan event meeting frothy positioning in risk assets and has the potential to lead to significant declines in risk assets and in particular commodities.”

With no sign of the disease’s containment, there’s a broader exit from riskier assets across financial markets, though many are closed for holidays including China, Hong Kong, South Korea and Australia. Contracts on the S&P 500 Index fell more than 1% before paring losses and Japan’s Topix slid.

There’s a flight to safety under way and that’s bolstering gold and other precious metals, a bright spot in the otherwise bearish commodities complex. Spot bullion bullion jumped more than 1% before paring gains by half.

“I always own gold, especially when risks are high and interest rates are low and I will up those allocations,” said Stephen Innes, chief market strategist at AxiCorp., adding that he doesn’t yet see an opportunity to buy into the dip in other commodities. “Until I get something that hits me in the face telling me to buy this stuff, I will not. The fear factor is manifesting.”

To contact the reporters on this story: Alfred Cang in Singapore at acang@bloomberg.net;Saket Sundria in Singapore at ssundria@bloomberg.net

To contact the editors responsible for this story: Will Kennedy at wkennedy3@bloomberg.net, Alexander Kwiatkowski, Anna Kitanaka

For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com

Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source.