'In the next 48 hours': WA government to release coronavirus guidelines ahead of school return 
 “I expect we will have some guidelines to issue about the return to school … in the next 48 hours,” she said.
“We are following the advice of the Department of Health … as soon as those guidelines are ready I will release them to the public.”
Meanwhile at least one Perth private school principal has warned parents to keep their children home for at least 10 days if they were at risk of being exposed.
Wesley College headmaster Ross Barron contacted parents on Sunday saying the school had to act on managing the potential risk, with Year 12 students and new boarders due on campus on Tuesday.
"The Australian Government is closely monitoring this outbreak and have already put in place well-established procedures to ensure people with illnesses travelling into the country are detected," he wrote in an email to parents and guardians.

"Nevertheless, it is clear that our understanding of this outbreak is only just emerging and as such the College needs to take further steps to manage any potential risk to our community. We have consulted with health professionals and will continue to liaise with them as the situation evolves.
"If you have recently visited the Wuhan district of China, we ask that you don’t send your children to school until they have been back in Australia for at least 10 days."
Loading
Students returning to school tomorrow who may have been at risk of exposure would needed to have returned from Wuhan, China by January 17, according to Mr Barron.
"Wesley does have some students from China and given our wider community is diverse, I do understand that there will have been people travelling to various places around the world," he said. "If you have travelled through China during this holiday period I ask that you contact our Health Centre so that we are aware."

At least 10 Victorian schools have also put parents on urgent alert over the deadly coronavirus, instructing them to keep any students at risk of carrying the virus away from school for at least 10 days.
When asked how comfortable she was still having direct flights from Perth to Shanghai every week, Minister Ellery said as long as the public health systems were in place and dealing with things appropriately, West Australians should feel confident.
“All of the steps have been put in place to assess people as they arrive,” she said.
Many WA private schools begin the school year this week, with public schools not starting until next week.

Lauren is a casual reporter and producer for WAtoday.