Chinese school in Manila suspends classes until Feb. 8 as precaution vs coronavirus 
 MANILA, Philippines — A Chinese school has suspended classes on all levels in its two campuses in Manila as a precautionary measure against the outbreak of the novel coronavirus or 2019-nCoV in China.

“As a precautionary measure in relation to the outbreak of coronavirus in China and neighboring Asian nations, there will be no classes in all levels at both Padre Algue and Narra campuses from January 27, 2020 (Monday) to February 8, 2020 (Saturday),” Chiang Kai Shek College said in a Facebook post.

No student will be allowed inside the school premises for both campuses during the period. All activities, whether co-curricular or extra-curricular, to be done inside these campuses are also suspended, according to the college.

“All students are advised to engage in an independent study through the various educative tasks to be assigned to them on the school’s official website and Facebook page,” it added.

Parents or guardians may come to the school should they have any inquiries, provided that they will undergo temperature check through a forehead scanner. They may also opt to call the school’s trunk line.

This was a development to the earlier announcement of the school that there will be no classes to both campuses only for Monday.

Also on Monday, several private schools in Manila and Quezon City also suspended classes as the novel coronavirus, according to the World Health Organization on Sunday, claimed 56 lives in China and infected over 2,000 globally.

READ: Several Chinese schools in Manila, QC suspend classes due to virus scare

The Manila Health Department earlier said that there was no confirmed case of the virus at the Metropolitan Hospital in Binondo, amid a social media post claiming that a Chinese patient with suspected infection of the virus was admitted to the hospital.

While the Department of Health (DOH) emphasized the country remains free from nCoV, 11 individuals have been placed under investigation for suspected infection of the mysterious virus.