Brit living in coronavirus ground zero Wuhan not tested in UK after flying home 
 A British teacher who lives in the epicentre of the deadly coronavirus outbreak says he wasn't tested when he flew home to the UK last week.

David Marland lives just five minutes from a live animal and seafood market in Wuhan where it is believed the SARS-like virus was passed to humans.

The 34-year-old walks through the market nearly every day and at least one person living in his apartment block in the Chinese city has tested positive for the flu-like illness.

Mr Marland said he rang NHS 111 for advice after landing at Gatwick Airport last week and expected to be called in immediately for a test, but he was only if he had "the sniffles".

Have you been affected by coronavirus? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.

After Mr Marland told the call taker that he didn't have the "sniffles", he was instructed to call back if he started feeling unwell.

Mr Marland, a mathematics teacher who has lived in Wuhan for a decade, fears he was given the wrong advice.

His family has asked him to stay away because they fear he could be carrying the virus, which has killed more than 80 people in China and infected more than 2,000 others.

It has since emerged that the virus is infectious in its incubation period.

Carriers can spread the disease for up to two weeks before symptoms show, according to Chinese officials.

Mr Marland, of West Wycombe, Bucks, told the Telegraph: "I'm potentially a risk to other people. I'm still within the two-week period so I could be spreading the disease everywhere without having any symptoms.

"I live five minutes from the Wuhan fish market. It's not a nice place, full of chickens and dead hedgehogs."

He said no-one in Britain had advised him to stay at home or stay away from others.

Referring to his call to NHS 111, Mr Marland said: "It was like they were just ticking boxes. It feels like they are leaving the door open to this thing."

The Brit, who teachers at the Wuhan China Britain School, returned to Britain on January 17 after travelling from Wuhan to Gatwick through Shenzhen and Hong Kong.

A top health chief warned on Monday that coronavirus is likely already in Britain.

Public Health England medical director Dr Yvonne Doyle told Sky News she suspects there are already cases of coronavirus in the UK.

She says the country is "well-prepared" to handle cases here.

The risk to the British public remains low, according to health chiefs.

Officials are trying to track down about 2,000 people who have recently flown to the UK from Wuhan.

Meanwhile, former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt has suggested airlifts for UK citizens trapped in Wuhan, where the outbreak began late last month.

It is estimated that between 300 and 500 Britons live in the city of 11million people.

Public Health England (PHE) said 52 people have been tested for the virus in the UK and all tests have come back negative.

There are no confirmed cases in the UK or of UK citizens abroad as of Monday morning, it said.

PHE said Britons who have visited Wuhan and have developed a fever, difficulty breathing or a cough within 14 days should seek medical attention.

Those who have returned to the UK are advised to stay indoors and avoid contact with others where possible, call their GP or ring 111 to inform a call taker of their symptoms and their recent travel to Wuhan.