Japan tourism sector braces for prolonged hit from China travel ban as virus spreads 
 The Japanese tourism industry is bracing for a potential financial hit after the Chinese government on Jan. 27 implemented a blanket ban on group tours to foreign countries to help stop the spread of a new coronavirus -- just after the Jan. 25 start of the Lunar New Year holiday when many Chinese take trips to Japan. The ban has no set end date, and if it goes on for long, the impact could be grave indeed for tourist spots counting on the custom of Chinese holidaymakers.

Holiday Jack is a ninja experience tour operator based Asakusa, an area of Tokyo popular with tourists, that gives paying customers the chance to dress up as ninjas and practice using shuriken throwing stars. And it is already feeling the virus' chill.

Many of its clients are inbound tourists, and Chinese people alone make up some 30% of their customer base. Just in the last week since infections reportedly began to spread significantly beyond the breakout's epicenter in Wuhan, Hubei province, Holiday Jack has seen around a dozen individual booking cancellations.

The firm's head, 33-year-old Tomoyuki Yano, said, "We're in the period now ordinarily where we're looking toward spring and group bookings. Because tour groups have been banned from travelling to Japan, we're concerned it'll have an effect on our sales."

One duty free shop in Tokyo reportedly gets over 80% of its annual sales from Chinese tourists. Although there are many individual travelers who shop at this time of year, if Chinese tour groups can't come to Japan, then sales at the store are expected to fall by around 10%.

An official at the store said, "For our shop this is an important time of year, but there's no other way to prevent the spread of the virus. If it becomes difficult for individual travelers to come to Japan too, then there will be a further effect on our business."

Kusatsu in Gunma Prefecture, known for its Kusatsu Onsen hot spring and "yumomi," a traditional practice in which women sing as they stir the spring water to cool it for the baths, is a hot destination among richer Chinese visitors. The town's Hotel Village is reportedly already seeing cancellations by Chinese tourists.

A hotel staffer said, "We've also had calls from Japanese customers expressing concern about the new pneumonia virus. At the moment it's not having a big effect on us, but we are worried about cooling demand among our domestic guests."

Meanwhile, the first port call in Yokohama in Kanagawa Prefecture, south of Tokyo, by the cruise ship Piano Land from Shanghai, set for Feb. 1, has been cancelled. The 69,840-metric-ton vessel can carry 1,880 passengers.

Nagoya Castle in Nagoya, in the central Japan prefecture of Aichi, says that in recent years between 30% and 40% of its annual 2.2 million visitors come from outside Japan, with Chinese patrons making up the largest proportion of inbound sightseers. Even on Jan. 26, there was a noticeable Chinese tourist presence.

But the castle's administration doesn't expect the stability to last, with one official saying, "We haven't had cancellations from group tours yet, but after a few days the number of visitors could fall dramatically. There's no end in sight, so all we can do is wait and see."

In western Japan, Osaka's Minami shopping and entertainment district appeared to be as busy as ever on the afternoon of Jan. 26. But a Chinese man working as a tour guide cut a tense figure, and told the Mainichi Shimbun, "My company has told me I mustn't talk about the suspension of group tours to Japan." Another male guide said, "This is an important time of year for us, so it's bad. I'll be very sad if our jobs go."

Kyoto, Japan's ancient capital and one of its most popular tourist destinations, is also starting to feel the squeeze, with a stream of cancellations coming in since the group tour ban was announced.

Restaurant Arashiyama, near the popular Togetsukyo bridge in Kyoto's Arashiyama district, has reportedly had five group reservations cancelled so far. The business had already been suffering a fall in South Korean customers due to worsening relations between Japan and South Korea. An official said, "With the Korean issue dragging on, it's been a double hit for us."