Iran to Wuhan: Will India ever wake up from Nehruvian delusion of Panchsheel? 
 If you are a sci-fi enthusiast, we are living in the most wonderful time as every day brings something new and exciting. Technology is galloping ahead like never before and even the sci-fi movies made barely a decade ago are looking pale against the AI and drones and machines that are waiting in the wings to break out.

BUT, all that sense of wonder and excitement that you could be feeling, if you are in India, I want to puncture your balloon.

Sorry. The future that we all can see for the human race is exciting and promising, but it isn’t for you.

The talks of singularity and man-machine convergence are real and even more than we can imagine today is surely coming, but if it does and India carries on the path that Nehruvian Panchasheel ideas, you are not going to be part of it. In fact, there is a great chance that you will end up dead or become fodder for the technology that is rising outside India.

2020 is young and yet it has started showing us a possible future that we need to wake up.

We have started the year with the drone wars between USA and Iran culminating with USA proving that it can take out anyone anywhere on the globe by just giving orders from the Oval office and now we have something even more interesting happening in Wuhan in China.

Though there is no conclusive evidence to suggest the artificial nature of coronavirus, we are already hearing unsubstantiated news of Wuhan having a highly advanced laboratory researching on virus.

Though it is a bit irresponsible for a non-expert to try to put two plus two, just to show how dangerous is the world that we are living in, my twenty-minute search on internet reveals that the current version of coronavirus is about 80-90 % of the SARS virus (that caused equally big scare in 2003) and the rest could have been grafted or arrived from other virus genomes.

If I have a cursory glance at Wikipedia page, it tells me that the spiky morphology that has given identity to the virus is created by the viral spike (S) peplomers, which are proteins that populate the surface of the virus and determine host-tropism. In simpler words, there are spikes (peplomers) on the surface that decide host-tropism, i.e. who the virus can infect.

And another search to see if there is way to control how these spikes behave, in next half a minute, I find a paper titled “Conformational Change of the Coronavirus Peplomer Glycoprotein at pH 8.0 and 37°C Correlates with Virus Aggregation and Virus-Induced Cell Fusion”, (which is actually good news as this offers a way to reduce infectivity of the virus) but it also means that there could be at least some handles to play around with the peplomers and even a possibility of making more virulent strain, and worse, even make it more host-specific.

While admitting that I have no qualification to validate my above cited hyper-simplified and paranoid wild goose chase after coronavirus, the bitter truth is, even if no one is playing with the virus, someone can and hence will.

As someone who has read a bit of a history of humanity, all I know that whenever a transformational technology arrives amongst humans, it leads to reorganisation of the world, more often with wars than not. And someone who has read a bit of history of India (that is left for me to read by the past-masters), I know that we have always been at the receiving end of such a change.

But, when I look at the rise of AI, the drones, the CRISPR and more that is bubbling in tech-space across the world and look back at my nation, I see no recognition of the change coming at us.

I see no large AI initiative, and worse, I see hardly any BSL IV (Bio Safety Level IV) labs that can even work on thousands of dangerous pathogens like SARS that already exist. So, if someone wanted to research on coronavirus for something similar to the paper cited above, there are hardly any laboratories with matching level of biosafety.

I see that we are a sitting duck and yet we are still living under the delusion that the world is a brotherhood of Men.

We have started on the slippery path of peace and love with Panchasheel principles governing how we look at the world. I don’t dispute that Jawarhalal Nehruji’s world vision could have been right in the world ravaged by world wars and hence passing through a phase of “smashan-vairagya”. But, now it is time to wake up.

India needs to recognise the world has always been a dangerous place and we need break free from the delusion of Nehruvian ideas in a world about to reshape itself.

Wars are as real as they can get, and if a nation doesn’t understand that being prepared is not paranoia but sense, it can be doomed.

    

         DISCLAIMER : Views expressed above are the author's own.