Jeffree Star posted videos of dense fog around his mansion hours before Kobe Bryant's helicopter crashed '2 miles' away 
 Jeffree Star posted an Instagram story that showed just how foggy LA was on Sunday morning.The video was uploaded just two hours before the tragic news broke of the helicopter crash that killed basketball legend Kobe Bryant and his daughter Gianna.Star said it was so foggy it "looks like I'm living in a cloud."He was later criticized for another story he uploaded upon hearing the news where he said the crash had happened just "two miles" from his house. Some accused the makeup mogul of trying to make the situation about himself.Visit Insider's homepage for more stories.Jeffree Star posted an Instagram story of the weather conditions where he lives in Hidden Hills, Los Angeles, just a few hours before the news broke of the helicopter crash that killed basketball legend Kobe Bryant, his daughter Gianna, and seven other passengers.Star, who recently moved to the massive 25,000-square-foot home, posted a video on Sunday morning of his Pomeranian Da Vinci outside in the fog."It is so foggy out," Star said. "I literally can't see anything. Looks like I'm living in a cloud."The fog conditions had been so bad that even the Los Angeles Police Department had deemed it too dangerous to fly, Business Insider's Alex Ma reported.About two hours later, news broke of the tragic accident, and Star posted another Instagram story saying the crash had happened just "two miles" from his house."Oh my God, there goes another helicopter," he said in the now-deleted video. "I can't f---ing believe this, you guys ... Kobe Bryant passed away two miles from my house. There's been helicopters flying over all morning, I feel sick."Star then sent thoughts to the rest of Bryant's family and expressed his fear about "so much f---ed up s--- happening in the world," including the coronavirus outbreak."I'm in a state of shock," he said. "Rest in peace to a f---ing legend. Kobe, we love you."—Rock Mercury (@RockinMercury) January 27, 2020However, some online commentators called Star out for posting a video so soon after the news, and claimed he was trying to make the situation about himself."Didn't think i could dislike him anymore and yet here we are," tweeted YouTuber Angelika Oles. "Disgusting. I don't see a single tear and the fact that he made it all about himself makes me sick."Some took it as an opportunity to bring up Star's controversial past of using racial slurs, which he has since apologized for.Others stood up for Star though, and said his words were being taken out of context."Here's the rest of the Vid since you love being a dusty Hater!" tweeted one fan. "LEAVE #JEFFREESTAR ALONE!!!"Read more:Jeffree Star is spotlighting an alleged Grindr murder in Michigan and says the dating-app company was slow to respondJeffree Star opened up about questioning his gender identity when he was younger: 'I was so confused and conflicted back then'Inside YouTuber Jeffree Star's incredible rise from teen MySpace star to a makeup mogul raking in millionsWhy the beauty community on YouTube is one of the most turbulent and drama-filled places on the internet