China Extends Holiday As Coronavirus Death Toll Rises To 81 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	The WUhan Red Cross hospital has been heavily impacted by the outbreak
AFP via Getty ImagesTopline: The Chinese government has rolled out new emergency measures to tackle the spread of coronavirus extending a public holiday by three days while China’s second-highest ranking official has visited Wuhan, the heart of the outbreak that has killed 81 people.
At least 2,744 people have been infected by the coronavirus, mostly in China, but with cases reported in more than 10 countries including across parts of Asia, the U.S. and France. 
The Lunar New Year holiday will be extended by three days with trading on the Shanghai Stock Exchange suspended until February 3, while some businesses in Shanghai have been ordered by the local government to suspend operations until February 10.
China’s government also banned tour groups from leaving China in a move to limit travel, and the spread of coronavirus, during what is the peak season for travel within China and internationally.
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang has visited Wuhan amid rising public anger over the Chinese government’s handling of the pneumonia-like virus with Wuhan’s embattled mayor Zhou Xianwang offering his resignation on Monday.
Major Lunar New Year events were cancelled in Beijing and Shanghai, dampening a holiday period that traditionally sees millions of people travel across the country to spend time with families. 
Millions are stuck within lockdown zones that now includes 17 cities, while authorities in Wuhan further restricted travel by suspending its visa services until Thursday. 
Several regions have enforced travel bans into Hubei province, including Hong Kong and Macau where a handful of cases have been reported, while the U.S., U.K. and Australia are among countries screening incoming passengers from the province.
Australia and some European countries are evacuating their citizens from Wuhan.

What to watch for: The impact of the coronavirus on China’s already slowing economy. The 2002-2003 SARS epidemic wiped $40 billion of world markets and claimed the lives of around 700 people, according to one study. China has grown to become the world’s second largest economy in the intervening 17 years with the outbreak likely to severely impact the travel, tourism and leisure sector. Coronavirus is also a test of President Xi Jinping ‘s government, attempts to focus the blame for a slow-response to the outbreak on Wuhan’s mayor and local authorities may not assuage growing public anger.  
Key background: Chinese officials have ramped up efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus over the biggest holiday in the Chinese calendar.. Despite the first case being reported in early December, the first death was recorded a month later, on January 9. The number of reported cases has since risen sharply. The coronavirus is believed to have originated in a food market in Wuhan and transmitted from illegally traded wildlife.