Taal volcano update: Satellite image reveals 'bright red' crater of Philippines volcano 
 Philippines authorities have downgraded Taal volcano’s alert level from 4 to 3, on a scale of five. The volcano no longer poses an immediate threat to life but sporadic volcanic activity could still precede an eruption.

On Thursday, January 23, the European Space Agency (ESA) photographed the erupting volcano with the aid of its Sentinel-2 satellite.
The birds-eye-view image shows “bright red” activity within Taal’s crater and a blanket of ash covering Tall Volcano Island.
Taal erupted on January 12 for the first time in 43, years forcing hundreds of thousands of Luzon Island residents to flee from around the Philippines volcano.
The eruption belched a thick column of smoke and ash up to 9.3 miles (15km) high.
READ MORE: Flu a bigger threat than the coronavirus, experts warn

The steam-driven eruption was promptly followed by a magmatic blast on January 13.
According to the Department of Science and Technology (DOST) and Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) activity around Taal has subsided over the weekend.
But the volcano could still erupt or spew toxic gases and ash into the air if low-frequency earthquakes around Taal are a sign of magma moving deep underground.
On January 23, ESA’s Sentinel-2 snapped the fiery mountain around 2.2am GMT (10.20am local time).
Infrared bands of light revealed scorching hot activity inside of the volcano’s smouldering crater.


ESA said: “The optical image has also been processed using the mission’s short-wave infrared band to show ongoing activity in the crater, visible in bright red.

“Ash blow by strong winds can be seen in Agoncillo, visible southwest of the Taal volcano.
“Ash has also been recorded in other areas of the Batangas province, as well as Manila and Quezon.”
On Monday morning local time, PHIVOLCS said the volcano has been showing “weak to moderate” emission from the crater.
DON’T MISS
Taal volcano ash plume seen from the International Space Station [PICTURES]
‘We’re sitting ducks’ for rogue asteroids, warns expert [INTERVIEW]
Yellowstone volcano: Earthquakes not eruptions are the ‘greatest hazard’ [ANALYSIS]

Steam-laden plumes were seen trailing from the volcano to heights between 164ft and 2,624ft (50m to 800m).
The agency also recorded lower emissions of sulphur dioxide (SO2) leaking from the crater at about 96 tons (85 tonnes) per day.
The Taal Volcano Network (TVN) also recorded 170 earthquakes in the past 24 hours, including four low-frequency quakes.
Low-frequency earthquakes could suggest magma is moving deep beneath the volcano.
Residents of Luzon Island were reminded not to approach the volcano within a 4.3 miles (7km) radius.


PHIVOLCS said: “DOST-PHIVOLCS reminds the public that sudden steam-driven and even weak phreatomagmatic explosions, volcanic earthquakes, ashfall, and lethal volcanic gas expulsions can still occur and threaten areas within Taal Volcano Island and nearby lake shores.
“DOST-PHIVOLCS recommends that entry into the Taal Volcano Island as well as into areas over Taal Lake and communities west of the island within a 7km radius from the Main Crater must be strictly prohibited.
“Local government units are advised to assess areas outside the 7km radius for damages and road accessibilities and to strengthen preparedness, contingency and communication measures in case of renewed unrest.”
The agency also warned unexpected blasts and airborne debris from the volcano could pose a threat to aircraft.