Pasay-based hospital assures: No patient with coronavirus as of now 
 MANILA, Philippines – The Adventist Medical Center Manila in Pasay City has assured the public that no patient who was or is currently admitted to the hospital has been confirmed to the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCov).

In a statement on Monday, the center’s management said that there were also no patients under investigation within the hospital — contrary to rumors circulating on social media.

“In response to claims through text messages and social media, we would like to reassure our regular patrons and public at large that no patient diagnosed to have the Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCov) or even patient under investigation for the same was admitted or presently admitted in the Adventist Medical Center Manila,” the hospital said.

“Further, last January 25, 2020, a patient was timely screened and properly screened at the newly designated triage area of the Emergency Room and our ER physicians consequently coordinated with the San Lazaro Hospital for the speedy transfer of the patient,” they added.

Prior to this clarification, the city government of Pasay also asked people to remain calm and to refrain from sharing fake news as there is no confirmed coronavirus case in the city.  Speculations that the Pasay City General Hospital is on lockdown is also not true, Mayor Emi Calixto-Rubiano said.

READ: No nCoV case in Pasay, says mayor

According to the Department of Health, the country remains free from this latest strain of coronavirus, which originated in Wuhan, China and is reported to have downed more than 2,000 persons, with at least 56 dead.

However, there are 11 individuals being observed in the Philippines, after they showed symptoms of flu, and were either coming from Wuhan or had interaction from people in Wuhan.

This strain, compared to the deadly Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome which also originated in China, has forced Wuhan to stop outbound trains and flights from departing the city.  Local authorities in the Philippines have also ordered airlines to suspend trips to Wuhan to avoid the spread of the virus.