Should Passengers Travel? Wuhan Novel Coronavirus Still Spreading As Lunar New Year Ends 
 As the Lunar New Year ends and travel demand increases, governments and the aviation industry are confronting new scenarios in the outbreak of novel coronavirus, adding to necessary responses from already over-burdened governments.
A flight from Singapore arrived in China carrying passengers possibly infected with the virus. All 314 passengers and 11 crew were quarantined for 13 hours at the airport and then transferred to a hotel for further isolation, prompting passengers to demand airlines disclose if there are residents of Wuhan onboard even if the flight is not travelling to Wuhan, the city at the center of the outbreak.
Yet full disclosure may be difficult or even illegal for an airline. This shifts the onus to governments to better coordinate about possible infections and if passengers at risk should be permitted to travel internationally. Faced with thorny questions that risk discrimination, governments may find it easier to encourage airlines to reduce flights to mainland China.
While Wuhan has been nearly closed off since January 23, the provincial government estimates five million people left prior as part of the Spring Festival travelling season. It estimates only 4,096 are outside mainland China. China Business News put the figure considerably higher at 46,000 but this includes departures since December 30, 2019 and some passengers could have returned by now. The destinations cited were all in regional Asia, but included intercontinental hubs like Hong Kong, Singapore and Tokyo where passengers could have transferred to a connecting flight.
Passengers will want to travel back from their holiday while others cannot financially sustain an extended overseas trip.
Complicating logistics and humanitarian factors is scientific uncertainty about the virus. There are conflicting views if the virus can be transmitted during the long incubation phase of up to two weeks, and if human-to-human transmission is possible and easy. If the worst proves true for both, there would be heightened risk of air travel. China has extended the Lunar New Year holiday from January 30 to February 2, as this would “reduce mass gatherings” and “block the spread of the epidemic,” a government statement said.
Most cases and all deaths have so far been in mainland China. The virus is less widespread and deadly than SARS, but China on Sunday warned it had yet to see the peak of the epidemic. The largest efforts to contain the virus have concerned travel within mainland China, but the end of the Lunar New Year will see passengers return from abroad.
The extreme concern is the presence of asymptomatic travellers, infected and contagious, who left Wuhan and are travelling. A Singapore-Hangzhou flight operated by Singapore’s Scoot on a January 24 had approximately 110 passengers onboard who were supposed to return to Wuhan but, due to Wuhan airport being shut, switched to Scoot’s flight to Hangzhou, 373 miles east of Wuhan. Like other airlines, Scoot allowed Wuhan passengers to re-book to another destination in greater China.
An unspecified number of the 110 passengers arrived in Singapore directly from Wuhan as part of the Lunar New Year travelling period. Passengers onboard the flight to Hangzhou were upset there was such a large group of passengers who could unknowingly be carrying the virus.
“We looked at the number of cases and Hangzhou did not seem too risky, so I decided to take the flight,” a passenger on the flight told the Straits Times. “But it is a different level of risk when you are stuck in an airplane with more than 100 people who have possibly been infected. If I had known, I would not have gone on the flight.”
Hangzhou seemed frustrated Scoot sent them a large number of individuals who had been in Wuhan, but officials were diligent. They conducted enhanced health screening on the approximately 110 passengers re-routed from Wuhan. Two of them were detected with a fever and later confirmed to have the virus.
Non-mainland Chinese airlines serving Wuhan include Air France, All Nippon Airways, Cathay Dragon and Korean Air. Hong Kong on Monday barred visitors from entering if they had been to Hubei in the last 14 days, but the territory did not make any stipulations about Hubei residents wishing to leave.
“We are following the entry restrictions imposed by the Hong Kong Government this morning. There is no restriction on departures from Hong Kong for airlines at this moment,” a spokesperson for Cathay Dragon said.
The Singapore government arranged for a special flight to take the quarantined Singaporeans and Scoot crew back to Singapore for local monitoring. The repatriation contrasts to neighbouring Malaysia, whose Malindo Air said six crew had been quarantined for up to 14 days in central China’s Zhengzhou, 259 miles north of Wuhan. The crew were quarantined after officials suspected a passenger onboard was from Hubei and infected with the virus.
A spokesperson for Singapore’s Ministry of Transport alluded to a large diplomatic  effort, saying: “The Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Health and the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore have worked closely with Scoot, Changi Airport Group, the Immigration  Checkpoints Authority, Raffles Medical Group and the People’s Republic of China authorities to expedite the safe return of our nationals.”
This picture taken on January 23, 2020 shows passengers wearing masks prepare to disembark from a ... [+] flight from Hong Kong on arrival at Bangkok's airport ahead of the Chinese New Year in Bangkok on January 23, 2020. - China sealed off millions more people near the epicentre of a virus outbreak on January 24, shutting down public transport in an eighth city in an unprecedented quarantine effort as the death toll from the disease climbed to 25. (Photo by Vivek Prakash / AFP) (Photo by VIVEK PRAKASH/Afp/AFP via Getty Images)
Afp/AFP via Getty Images