Major cruise lines cancel multiple sailings as Coronavirus threat continues 
 A number of cruise lines have cancelled sailings from China as a precaution amidst the deadly Coronavirus threat.

The virus has already killed over 80 people in China, and infected thousands of others in the country.

As a precaution, major cruise lines including Royal Caribbean, MSC Cruises and Costa Cruises have cancelled certain sailings due to depart from China.

We take a look at the cruise lines which have cancelled sailings below, including what refunds or alternatives are being offered to affected passengers.

Check out the full list below...

If you have travel plans, make sure to check the latest FCO advice on China.

Royal Caribbean suspended Spectrum of the Seas sailings on Monday 27th and Friday 31st January. Affected passengers are being offered full refunds.

A statement from the cruise line explained: "In light of the latest developments with the Coronavirus outbreak in China, we are suspending the January 27 and January 31 sailings of Spectrum of the Seas, currently our only ship homeported in China. We are working with our guests to provide full refunds for the cancellation.

"The health and safety of our guests and crew is our primary concern, and we continue to work with the World Health Organization, the Centers for Disease Control, and government health authorities to monitor the situation."

MSC Cruises has cancelled a cruise on board MSC Splendida due to depart on Tuesday 28th January, and is offering passengers the option to receive a full refund, or book an alternative sailing.

A spokesperson for MSC Cruises said: "Due to urgent guidelines from the Chinese government to combat the spread of the coronavirus, MSC Cruises is required to cancel the upcoming cruise with MSC Splendida on 28 January.

"Guests booked on this cruise have the option to receive a full refund of their cruise ticket and port charges, or book an alternative sailing with an equivalent price and receiving additional onboard credit – with an embarkation date before the end of the year."

"At the time of writing, MSC Splendida is planned to remain in port for the duration of the cruise from 28 January until 1 February.

"We will continue to closely monitor the public health and safety situation in China and are consulting with international and local health authorities, as well as the Ministry of Transport of the People's Republic of China, and strictly follow their advice and recommendations.

"Guests and Travel Partners have been informed and will be kept abreast of any further changes as the situation evolves."

Affected passengers are being offered the choice of a full refund, or an alternative sailing date before the end of the year, with a $50 onboard credit.