Coronavirus death toll balloons to 80; thousands infected, at least 5 US cases 
 China's death toll from a new coronavirus rose to 80 and confirmed cases across the nation ballooned to more than 2,700 as health officials grappled with the fast-spreading outbreak.

More than 40 cases have been confirmed in a dozen other countries, including five in the U.S. Drug companies are racing the clock to develop a vaccine.

China’s National Health Commission says it appears the virus is infectious before symptoms show, an alarming characteristic that could complicate containment efforts. The government extended its Lunar New Year holiday period by three days, until Sunday, to ease crowds as tens of millions of Chinese return home from visiting family and tourist sites.

Chinese Premier Li Keqiang arrived Monday in Wuhan, a city of 11 million people that is the epicenter of the outbreak, to take charge of the effort to curb its spread, the South China Morning Post reported.

“You are trying every means to save lives,” Li told medical staff at Jinyintan hospital, one of the designated institutions for coronavirus patients. “When you are putting your efforts to save lives, you have to protect yourselves too.”

In the U.S., more cases were confirmed Sunday, raising the U.S. total to five. Two are in California, one in Arizona, one in Illinois and one in Washington state. Dozens of cities and states continue to screen patients whose symptoms are consistent with the virus.

The Virginia Health Department said Sunday that it is investigating two residents in central Virginia and one in northern Virginia "who meet both clinical and epidemiologic criteria" for the virus.

"All US cases traveled from Wuhan, China," the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in a statement. "More cases may be identified. However, risk to US general public is still considered low."

China Health Minister Ma Xiaowei said Sunday that the virus is capable of transmission even during the incubation period – before a patient shows symptoms – of one to 14 days.

Drugmakers are rushing to create a vaccine: Here's how they're doing it

5 US coronavirus cases now confirmed: Infection can spread before symptoms show

That could make this outbreak more ominous than severe acute respiratory syndrome, SARS, a virus that was not contagious during incubation. SARS killed more than 600 people across mainland China and Hong Kong along with more than 100 other people around the world in 2002-2003.

Ogbonnaya Omenka, an assistant professor and public health specialist at Butler University's College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, says the revelation makes the coronavirus "more problematic and more difficult to contain."

"It poses additional challenges," Omenka told USA TODAY. "Now we’re looking at both the identified cases and the traced contacts needing to be isolated, to ensure the contacts do not keep spreading the virus unwittingly."