Has coronavirus reached the UK? 
 UK officials are desperately trying to trace up to 2,000 people who may have flown to the UK from Wuhan in China amid fears they are carrying coronavirus.

So far tests on 14 people have come back negative, but medical professionals say Britain will see cases. Here's the latest.

It could already by here.

Dr Yvonne Doyle, a medical director at Public Health England, suspects that the lethal new virus could have bypassed airport screening.

In an interview with Sky News, she said: "Our view is that, although airports are important, the most likely place that we might find a case is somebody in the country already, and it's absolutely critical that the public health service and the NHS are ready to diagnose that and are able to designate the person to the right facilities.

"That's the most likely scenario we are dealing with."

Asked if she was alarmed about a UK case, she said: "I think, with infections, health is global.

"We've been here before, we've dealt with Middle Eastern virus, we've dealt with Sars, we deal with flu regularly, which can be dangerous, but we're ready."

And asked if there could be cases already in Britain, she said: "I would expect so."

More than 50 people have now been tested for coronavirus in the UK, according to the Department of Health (DoH), although all tests have returned negative.

As of Sunday afternoon, some 52 people across England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland have been tested for the deadly flu-like virus

Efforts were continuing to trace the 2,000 people who have entered the UK from China on international flights.

Dr Yvonne Doyle said: "We are now looking back to see whether any of them are still in the country, because some of them will have returned to China, but there are moves to identify them.

"It's not always possible to find everybody but we are working to our best endeavours."

Prof Doyle said washing hands with soap and water is more effective than wearing a face mask, although face masks are important for staff to use in hospitals when dealing with suspected cases.

And she urged anyone who has entered the UK from Wuhan and who has fallen ill with a fever, cough or difficulty breathing, to contact NHS 111.

Earlier on Monday, former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt suggested airlifts for UK citizens in China could occur and warned of the pressure the coronavirus could put on the NHS.

Asked if he supported flying Britons back from Wuhan and elsewhere, he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I think I would be very sympathetic and I'm sure the Foreign Office would be too."

He said the NHS is well-equipped to deal with patients returning with the virus but warned that it could strain the service.

"This is a very difficult time of year for the NHS - it is the most difficult time.

"But, again, my experience is that the NHS does know how to cope with these kinds of emergencies."

According to the World Health Organisation and national authorities, there have been at least 44 confirmed cases outside China.