Stocks making the biggest moves premarket: DR Horton, Arconic, Starbucks, Boeing & more 
 Check out the companies making headlines before the bell:

D.R. Horton (DHI) – The homebuilder earned $1.16 per share for its fiscal first quarter, beating the consensus estimate of 92 cents a share. Revenue also topped forecasts. New orders were up 19% on a volume basis and up 22% in value. The company also raised the upper end of its full-year home sales forecast.

Arconic (ARNC) – Arconic missed estimates by a penny a share, with adjusted quarterly earnings of 53 cents per share. Revenue came in shy of Wall Street predictions. The maker of engineered metals products saw a 1% improvement in organic revenue on factors like favorable pricing and raw materials costs, partially offset by some weakness in its automotive and commercial transportation markets. Arconic also said it would complete its planned split of its aerospace components and aluminum rolling businesses into two companies on April 1.

Travel-related stocks – These are likely to be hit once again as coronavirus cases mount – including major airlines like United Airlines (UAL), Delta Air Lines (DAL), American Airlines (AAL), and Southwest (LUV), and cruise line operators like Royal Caribbean (RCL), Norwegian Cruise Line (NCLH), and Carnival Cruise Lines (CCL). Casino stocks like Wynn Resorts (WYNN) and Las Vegas Sands (LVS) are also being hit.

Starbucks (SBUX) – Starbucks has temporarily closed all its shots in China's Hubei province and suspended delivery services, amid health concerns for customers and employees amid the spread of the coronavirus.

Estee Lauder (EL) – Oppenheimer downgraded the cosmetics maker to "perform" from "outperform." The firm cited the stock's premium valuation coupled with concerns about the coronavirus impact on a company that has seen China represent a key driver of recent growth.

Boeing (BA) – Boeing completed a successful maiden voyage of its 777-X jet over the weekend, a respite for the jet maker amid the ongoing grounding of its 737 Max jet.

AbbVie (ABBV) – AbbVie sold a number of assets to Nestle and AstraZeneca (AZN), as it seeks to win regulatory approval for its $63 billion acquisition of drugmaker Allergan (AGN).

Fiat Chrysler (FCAU) – Fiat Chrysler filed court motions Friday to dismiss a lawsuit filed by rival automaker General Motors (GM). Fiat Chrysler said GM does not have sufficient grounds to bring a racketeering case that alleges bribery of union officials.

Kraft Heinz (KHC) – Kraft Heinz CEO Miguel Patricio told The Wall Street Journal that he wants to food maker to make fewer but bigger bets on new products, as its older brands suffer a sales decline.

Alphabet (GOOGL) – State attorneys general will meet with Justice Department officials to share investigative material involving Google, according to The Wall Street Journal.

Winnebago Industries (WGO) – The RV maker was rated "overweight" in new coverage at KeyBanc, which sees recreational vehicle shipments stronger than consensus for 2020 and is also optimistic about the increasing benefits of Winnebago's 2016 acquisition of towable vehicle maker Grand Design.