Coronavirus contagious for weeks BEFORE symptoms & victims typically infect two 
 CORONAVIRUS patients could have spread the disease even before symptoms appear in their own bodies, Chinese officials have said.

So far 81 people have died from the virus with 2801 infected around the world and scientists now believe each patient can pass it on to at least two others.

The city of Wuhan, where the virus began, has been put in lockdown along with 13 other cities in the province of Hubei as Chinese officials desperately battle the virus.

China's health minister, Ma Xiaowei, said the country was entering a crucial stage “as it seems like the ability of the virus to spread is getting stronger”.

Officials believe the incubation period, when a person has the disease but no symptoms yet, ranges from between one and 14 days, officials believe, the BBC reports,.

Without symptoms, a person may not know they have the infection, but still be able to spread it.

Two separate scientific analyses of the epidemic have concluded each person infected is passing the disease to between two and three other people on average at current transmission rates.

But to be able to contain the epidemic and turn the tide of infections, control measures would have to halt transmission in at least 60 per cent of cases.

“It is unclear at the current time whether this outbreak can be contained within China,” said Neil Ferguson, an infectious disease specialist at Imperial College London who co-led one of the studies.

His team suggest as many as 4,000 people in Wuhan were already infected by January 18 and that on average each case was infecting two or three others.

Prof Ferguson said his “best guess” was that 100,000 may already have been affected by the virus.

A second study by researchers at Britain’s Lancaster University also calculated the contagion rate at 2.5 new people on average being infected by each person already infected.

Dr Yvonne Doyle, a medical director at Public Health England, said she suspects the lethal coronavirus could have bypassed airport screening and is already in the UK.

The virus has could pose a threat for millions of Brits with asthma, experts have warned.

It has emerged five million people fled Wuhan in fear of the virus just before the city was put on lockdown.

In a bid to curb it, authorities have extended the Lunar New Year holiday by three days from 30th January to 2nd February.

Hubei province, where Wuhan is located, has accounted for 76 of the deaths reported so far.

There have been one each in Shanghai and the provinces of Hebei in the north, Heilongjiang in the northeast and Henan in central China.