Global Stocks Plummet As Coronavirus Continues To Spread 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	More than 2,800 people are now infected, with the death toll at 80.
Anthony Wallace/AFP via Getty ImagesTopline: Global stock markets plunged on Monday, moving sharply lower amid rising concerns over the severity and economic impact of the deadly coronavirus that continues to rapidly spread across China and to other countries.
The deadly coronavirus that originated in Wuhan, China, continues to spread globally, with 81 people now dead and more than 2,800 infected by Monday morning. 
The virus has now reached ten countries including across parts of Asia, France and the U.S. (where a fifth case has now been confirmed), prompting substantial sell-offs in major financial markets.
U.S. stock futures were significantly lower ahead of Monday’s market open: The SP 500 was down 1.5% in pre-market trading, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Nasdaq Composite fell 1.5% and 1.8%, respectively.
Global markets also took a hit from the China virus fears, with the European Stoxcx 600 index falling 2.1%, Germany’s Dax losing 2.3%, France’s CAC 50 dropping 2.4% and the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF plunging almost 4%.
While trading in Chinese and most Asian markets were closed due to the Lunar New Year holiday, Japan’s Nikkei 225 index fell more than 2% Monday.
Coronavirus fears have been worrying investors since last week; U.S. stocks last Friday recorded their first weekly loss of the year, with the SP 500 having its worst week in six months.

Tangent: Several different groups of stocks were particularly hard hit by concerns about the financial fallout of the coronavirus. Airline stocks plunged in pre-market trading, with Delta, United and American each dropping more than 3.6%. With the coronavirus set to heavily impact China’s tourism industry during a crucial time of year (the Lunar New Year), stock prices for big casino and resort operators also took a nosedive. Shares of Las Vegas Sands fell 7.7%, MGM Resorts by 5.2% and Wynn Resorts by 8.8%. Travel stocks, like Expedia and Marriott International, fell around 4%. Tour and cruise operators, such as Carnival and Royal Carribean Cruises, were down 3.8% and 4.8%, respectively. Even some consumer goods stocks, like those who have substantial business in China, were also affected. Apple was down 2.5%, Disney fell 2.8% and Nike dropped 3.6%.
Crucial quote: While there was a “sharp but short pullback” in the stock market during the SARS outbreak, it had little effect on overall U.S. economic growth, points out Brad McMillan, chief investment officer for Commonwealth Financial Network. Over the course of a year, SARS was a “nonissue” for U.S. investors, he says. “Even if this new disease proves to be much worse than it looks at the moment, here in the U.S. the damage will be limited—and should pass quickly.”
Big numbers: If the coronavirus becomes as dangerous as the SARS outbreak (which killed nearly 800 people in 2003) then it could have a substantial impact on China’s economic growth. The Economist Intelligence Unit believes China’s current projected growth rate of 5.9% would be dragged down by 0.5% to 1% in total, while SP Global warns that the virus could take as much as 1.2% off China’s economic growth. 
What to watch for: Some public health experts estimate that the number of Chinese residents infected with the virus is a good deal larger than cases reported by the government so far. While the impact of the coronavirus on China’s already slowing economy remains to be determined, if comparable to SARS, it could be substantial. The 2002-2003 SARS epidemic wiped $40 billion off of world markets, according to one study. The coronavirus outbreak is likely to severely impact travel, tourism and consumer businesses in China, which is already facing challenges like rising food prices and slowing economic growth, not to mention trade tensions with the U.S. and political challenges in Hong Kong.