Brits trapped in coronavirus 'ground zero' slam government for not evacuating them - as China BLOCKS airlift attempts 
 BRITS trapped in Wuhan have blasted the government for not evacuating them as China blocks all airlift attempts from the coronavirus-hit city.

Travellers and ex-pats claim they have been abandoned the Foreign Office despite begging officials to “get us out of here”.

One man described the situation as a “p***take”, the Daily Mail reports.

It comes as Chinese officials have told all countries its lockdown will not be lifted for repatriation flights, a Foreign Office source revealed.

Worried Brits in the city of Wuhan — the source of the deadly illness — said they had been left without any information.

 One man fumed: “There hasn't been any engagement with the British citizens in Wuhan by the Foreign Office. It's an utter p***take that we're being left here like this.”

Another, who wished to remain anonymous, said they embassy had offered no support to stranded travellers.

He said: “There have been sporadic warnings from local government in Chinese to tell us that there will be road closures.

“There is no news on when the airport will re-open therefore the airline (China Southern) have just cancelled the flight.”

He added: "I've also had no help from the UK Embassy in Beijing who are conveniently closed for the weekend."



Meanwhile Boris Johnson has insisted plans are being worked on to help UK citizens in Wuhan and assured "we are doing everything" to screen people arriving from affected regions.

He said today: "We are looking at everything we can to give reassurance to those people in Wuhan and you will be hearing a bit more in due course but I don't want to pre-empt the decisions we are going to make.

"Obviously, we are doing everything we can to ensure that people who do come to this country are properly screened and checked if they have come from an area that is known to have the infection.

"So far there is still no case of somebody with coronavirus here the UK but clearly there are a lot of cases in China and it is spreading."

 Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab had been in tense negotiations with the Chinese government to send a rescue plane for expats.

A source close to Mr Raab said: “These discussions are very complex. Hopefully an agreement will be reached soon.

“We are keen to get this done as soon as possible, but a number of things need to happen on the ­Chinese side before we can make any firm promises.

“Their position is understandable but we have been very clear that time is of the essence.”



Fears of a UK coronavirus epidemic were growing last night as health chiefs struggled to find hundreds of people who may have been exposed to the virus.

Around 2,000 people have arrived in the UK from Wuhan in the last two weeks. But last night only 51 had been found and tested for the killer bug —– just 2.5 per cent of the “at risk” total.

All were found to be clear of snake flu — full name Wuhan novel coronavirus.

Dr Yvonne Griffiths, 71, a lecturer visiting China on behalf of Birmingham University, said: “Wuhan has changed completely in the last few days.

“Roads are deserted. In the supermarket everybody is wearing a mask. In the hotel, where we are, everyone is wearing a mask.

“We have no news when the airport will re- open. There’s no information coming from any source — so that's a concern.”

Simon Gibbons, 36, from London, who works in the car industry in Wuhan, accused the Foreign Office of “sitting back and watching the situation develop before they put plans in place — when 300 Brits in Wuhan are scared to leave the house.”

A Foreign Office source said embassies closed over the weekend because of Chinese New Year celebrations, but “a great deal of work” was done behind the scenes. Last night the death toll was 56, with 2,000 confirmed cases worldwide.

British scientists are racing to develop a vaccine for coronavirus — thought to have come from snakes — after three cases were detected in France.

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.