What we know about the coronavirus cases in the US 
 The novel coronavirus, which has sickened thousands and killed at least 80 people in China, belongs to a large family of viruses that mostly sicken animals. But this coronavirus, like SARS and MERS, "jumped the species barrier" to infect people on a large scale, the CDC said.

Despite its impact in China, the CDC maintains that the risk to Americans is low. But there's still a lot about the virus, its symptoms and how easily it spreads that health officials don't know.

"We need to be preparing as if this is a pandemic, but I continue to hope that it is not," said Dr. Nancy Messonnier, director of the CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases.

The five patients who've been confirmed had all recently returned from Wuhan, the CDC said.

The first confirmed coronavirus patient in the US, a man in his 30s , sought treatment at an urgent care center in the state after returning from Wuhan. The urgent care center sent his samples to the CDC, which confirmed he had the coronavirus. He entered isolated care at a hospital in Everett, about 30 miles north of Seattle, on January 23. He's receiving treatment in an isolated gurney designed for patients with highly contagious diseases, and a robot takes his vitals He's in stable condition, said Dr. George Diaz, the man's physician and an infectious disease expert. He'll undergo additional testing until he's no longer contagious. was diagnosed a few days after she returned from Wuhan on January 13. She's in stable condition and "doing well" after undergoing treatment, Chicago Department of Public Health Commissioner Dr. Allison Arwardy said. was diagnosed a few days after she returned from Wuhan on January 13. She's in stable condition and "doing well" after undergoing treatment, Chicago Department of Public Health Commissioner Dr. Allison Arwardy said. A woman in her 60s was diagnosed a few days after she returned from Wuhan on January 13. She's in stable condition and "doing well" after undergoing treatment, Chicago Department of Public Health Commissioner Dr. Allison Arwardy said. She'll stay in the hospital to control the infection. Details are sparse about this patient. They're currently being treated at a local hospital, though the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health didn't disclose how long they sought treatment after exposure to the virus. The risk to Los Angeles County is low, the department said. Flight crews wearing masks arrive at the Toronto Pearson Airport in Toronto, Canada, on Sunday, January 26. A man wearing a face mask sits on a bench as he waits on a platform for a MTR underground metro train in Hong Kong on January 27. Police officers stand in front of the Tiananmen Gate in Beijing on Sunday, January 26. A person wears a protective mask, goggles and coat as he stands in a nearly empty street in Beijing on January 26. Medical staff members bring a patient to the Wuhan Red Cross Hospital on Saturday, January 25. People wear protective masks as they walk under Lunar New Year decorations in Beijing on January 25. Construction workers begin to work on a special hospital in Wuhan, China, to deal with the coronavirus outbreak on Friday, January 24. Dr. Allison Arwady, commissioner of the Chicago Department of Public Health, speaks to reporters on January 24 about a patient in Chicago who has been diagnosed with the coronavirus. The patient is the second in the United States to be diagnosed with the illness. A couple, wearing protective masks, kisses goodbye as they travel for the Lunar New Year holidays, at Beijing West Railway Station in Beijing. Chinese authorities rapidly expanded a mammoth quarantine effort aimed at containing a deadly contagion on January 24 to 13 cities and a staggering 41 million people, as nervous residents were checked for fevers and the death toll climbed. Tourists purchase masks at Narita International Airport on January 24, in Narita, Japan, as they prepare to return to China. Workers manufacture protective face masks in a factory in China's Hebei Province on Thursday, January 23. Face masks stocks are running low following the outbreak of coronavirus. An employee sprays disinfectant on a train as a precaution against a new coronavirus at Suseo Station in Seoul, South Korea, on Friday, January 24. Passengers wear protective masks at a Beijing railway station on Thursday, January 23. Authorities in the Chinese capital have canceled all large-scale New Year celebrations to contain the spread of the Wuhan coronavirus. A woman rides an electric bicycle on January 22 in Wuhan, China. The city where the outbreak began is under partial lockdown. People go through a checkpoint in Guangzhou on January 22. Medical staff of Union Hospital, affiliated with the Tongji Medical College of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, attend a gathering to form an "assault team" in the fight against pneumonia caused by the Wuhan coronavirus on January 22. Passengers from overseas are checked by a thermography device on January 23 at the Kansai International Airport in Osaka, Japan. Health officials hold a press conference in Beijing on January 22 following the spread of pneumonia caused by the coronavirus. People wear marks while shopping for vegetables in a market in Wuhan on January 23. A militia member checks the body temperature of a driver in Wuhan on January 23. Passengers wear masks as they arrive at the Ninoy Aquino International Airport in Manila, Philippines, on January 23. A customer holds boxes of particulate respirators at a pharmacy in Hong Kong on January 23. Passengers wear masks at the high-speed train station in Hong Kong on January 23. flew into Los Angeles International Airport in Wuhan earlier this month. The county found out January 23, and the CDC confirmed his results on Saturday. He's in a local hospital. flew into Los Angeles International Airport in Wuhan earlier this month. The county found out January 23, and the CDC confirmed his results on Saturday. He's in a local hospital. A man in his 50s flew into Los Angeles International Airport in Wuhan earlier this month. The county found out January 23, and the CDC confirmed his results on Saturday. He's in a local hospital. The state health department confirmed the patient is an "adult member" of the Arizona State University community, though it didn't release the patient's age or gender. The patient called their healthcare provider when they began to experience mild respiratory symptoms. The CDC confirmed the coronavirus on Sunday. The patient isn't hospitalized, but is self-isolated at home, the department said. The CDC is monitoring at least 100 people in 26 states for coronavirus. About 25 of them were found not to have it. Washington state health officials are monitoring 50 people who came in close contact with the state's patient. A man diagnosed with Wuhan coronavirus near Seattle is being treated largely by a robot New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo confirmed the state, which hasn't seen any confirmed cases yet, sent seven possible cases to the CDC for testing. Of those, four people remain in isolation while their results are pending. The travelers had just returned to the US from Lunar New Year celebrations in China. There's another suspected case in Waco, Texas, where a student at Baylor University is in isolated care. The university said the student is "doing well with minimal symptoms," though the CDC hasn't confirmed the student's results yet. Other coronavirus cases have been confirmed in several Asian countries, including Japan, Thailand and Vietnam. Patients have also been reported in France and Australia, and on Monday, Ontario public health officials confirmed two cases, a husband and wife, had the virus. The CDC is screening travelers from Wuhan at several US airports, including in Los Angeles, San Francisco and John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York. Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport and Chicago's O'Hare International Airport began screenings last week. The CDC advises Americans to avoid unnecessary travel to Hubei Province. Three dozen US diplomats and their families in Wuhan will evacuate the region to return to the US early this week. Otherwise, the CDC encourages people to follow flu season protocol: Wash hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, avoid ill people and stay home and avoid public situations if they're ill. A coronavirus vaccine would take at least a year to reach the public.