No More Mainland China Layovers For Cathay Pacific Crew As Novel Coronavirus Worries Grow 
 As China declared it had yet to reach the peak outbreak of the novel coronavirus that originated in Wuhan, Cathay Pacific is changing its flight schedule to end layovers in Mainland China and reduce the time its pilots and flight attendants could be exposed to any transmission risk. 
Cathay Pacific and its regional unit Cathay Dragon often operate more flights to mainland airports than any other non-mainland airline. In Shanghai alone, Cathay operates up to 13 daily flights to Pudong airport and upwards of two to Hongqiao.
“We will be reducing, as much as possible, our overnight layovers at all ports in Mainland China until further notice,” a spokesperson says. Other airlines are not known to have followed suit. Hong Kong is especially risk-averse in public health – elevator buttons can be sterilized multiples times a day – since the city suffered during the SARS epidemic. Cathay’s cabin crew union is vocal and earlier this month lobbied for staff to be able to wear face masks, but the union is not known to have publicly requested a change to layovers.
Cathay’s change started January 26 and occurs as the region is in the middle of the Lunar New Year holiday that traditionally halts formal business and government matters. Being able to make extensive schedule changes during this time underscores how active the mainland government is in trying to stem the outbreak. Flight changes can normally be an extensive procedure involving regulators, airport, air traffic, immigration and customs, and local ground companies.
While mainland China destinations are close enough to Hong Kong for the same airline crew to operate a flight there and back, Cathay has layovers so it can bring passengers to mainland China in the late evening after work, and fly them out early morning.
Cathay’s first flight to Shanghai usually does not arrive until 10:05am, and then needs approximately an hour to be prepared for the return flight. By the time that first flight out of Hong Kong departs Shanghai at 11:25am, Cathay has already had three flights depart Shanghai since the crew and aircraft arrived the evening before and stayed overnight.
Now those evening flights will depart Hong Kong starting at 3:30am, arriving in time to operate the normally scheduled morning departures from Shanghai. Typically Cathay’s first flight to Shanghai does not depart Hong Kong until 7:10am or 8:40am. 
Ending the layovers means Cathay’s last flight of the day to Shanghai will depart Hong Kong at 5:15pm instead of 9:15pm. Cathay is replicating the pattern to other cities. Its first flight to Beijing will now depart at 3:10am. Chengdu, Hangzhou, Jinan, Nanjing, Ningbo and Xiamen also see re-scheduled flights, according to Cathay’s website.
Flight attendants stand at the cabin door to welcome attendees onboard a flight of Hong Kong Dragon ... [+] Airlines Ltd.(Dragonair), a unit of Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., during a Dragonair event in Hong Kong, China, on Sunday, Nov. 15, 2015.
© 2015 Bloomberg Finance LPIt will be more challenging if airlines from outside of Asia, as well as some within Southeast Asia, want to reduce layovers since duty time limits would prohibit a crew working a flight from New York, London or Sydney to China and then back.
Qantas Airways was faced with this challenge after the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan that raised risk in the country, where long flight times from Australia require the crew to have a layover. Qantas’ solution was for Japan flights to make a stopover in Hong Kong where they would pick up a new crew that would operate from Hong Kong to Japan and then back to Hong Kong without a layover in Japan.