Disasters and deaths this January 
 Trees are engulfed in flames as a bushfire spreads in Adaminaby, New South Wales, Australia, January 9, 2020, in this still image from a video obtained from Ingleside Rural Fire Service. Hundreds of millions of animals are estimated to have perished while more than 5 million hectares of land have been destroyed in Australia as wildfires raged following a 3-year drought that left most of the country's bushland vulnerable to fires. Australia mourns US firefighters as probe into plane crash begins

Mourners attend a funeral procession of the Iranian Major-General Qassem Soleimani, head of the elite Quds Force of the Revolutionary Guards, and the Iraqi militia commander Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis, who were killed in an air strike at Baghdad airport, at Imam Ali Shrine in Najaf, Iraq, January 4, 2020. Picture taken January 4, 2020. US President Donald Trump ordered a drone strike that killed top Iranian military commander Qasem Soleimani on Jan. 3, according to the US Department of Defense. Soleimani was allegedly planning a "big action" that would have "put dozens if not hundreds of American lives at risk," Defense Secretary Mark Esper said. Iran vows revenge after US kills top general in Baghdad strike Tehran retaliated by firing missiles at military bases housing US troops in Iraq on Jan. 8 with no fatalities. The attacks heightened fears of another war in the Gulf. Trump: No US troops hurt in Iran strikes; Tehran 'standing down'

General view of the debris of the Ukraine International Airlines, flight PS752, Boeing 737-800 plane that crashed after take-off from Iran's Imam Khomeini airport, on the outskirts of Tehran, Iran January 8, 2020 is seen in this screen grab obtained from a social media video via Reuters Iran mistakenly shot down a Ukrainian plane shortly after takeoff, killing all 176 aboard on Jan. 8. Tehran said an investigation was ongoing to assess the bearing their impact had on the accident. Iran says Ukrainian aircraft shot down due to human error

Taal Volcano continues to emit white steam on Sunday, January 26, 2020. Photo taken at 8am. Taal Volcano, the second most active volcano in the country, spewed ash and sulfur on Jan. 12 that reached the capital, prompted the shutdown of the country's main airport, and forced some 137,000 to flee. Volcanologists on January 26 lowered its alert status to 3 after monitoring a decreased tendency towards an imminent hazardous eruption.

Passengers arriving at the NAIA Terminal 1 in Parañaque City wear face masks as a precaution on January 23, 2020, as the country raises the alert to prevent the spread of an undetermined strain of the coronavirus originating from Wuhan, China. A new coronavirus emerged from the central Chinese city of Wuhan last month and has so far claimed at least 80 lives and infected 2,000 across the globe. TIMELINE: How the new coronavirus developed