US prepares to evacuate 1,000 citizens from coronavirus-stricken Wuhan 
 The US government is rushing to evacuate Americans from the coronavirus-stricken Chinese city of Wuhan as officials warned the deadly strain's spread is picking up speed.

A charter flight is scheduled to fly from the Wuhan Tianhe International Airport to San Francisco International Airport on Tuesday.

The US consulate in Wuhan began reaching out to all Americans registered as living in the city - of which there are said to be roughly 1,000 - last week to offer them a seat on the plane.

The State Department warned that the single flight will have 'limited capacity' to transport private US citizens along with consulate staff, and said 'priority will be given to individuals at greater risk from coronavirus'.

Upon arrival in San Francisco, passengers are expected to be quarantined and screened for the virus which has sickened more than 2,800 people in at least 10 countries - with five confirmed cases in the US.

The death toll in China climbed to 81 on Monday as the Chinese government sent reinforcements into Wuhan, where the outbreak originated late last month.

A source familiar with the chartered evacuation flight told CNN that those who choose to evacuate will be forced to pay for their spot on the Boeing 767 jet, which carries around 230 people.

It is understood medical personnel will be on the flight to care for anyone who may have been infected by the virus and prevent it from spreading.

The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has said it is involved in the efforts to help Americans leave Wuhan.

'Department of State has the lead for the safe and expedient ordered departure of all US citizens from Wuhan, China,' CDC spokeswoman Kristen Nordlund said Saturday. 'CDC is aware and coordinating in the planning.'

Washington gained approval for the operation from China's Foreign Ministry and other government agencies.

The US also plans to temporarily shut its Wuhan consulate, officials said.

The Wuhan evacuation comes after a seventh coronavirus case was confirmed in North America on Monday morning.

The Ontario government announced that a second person had tested positive for the virus in Toronto - the wife of a man in his 50s who had been diagnosed on Saturday following a trip to China.

Three new cases were confirmed in the US over the weekend - two in California and one in Arizona.

US health officials say that both California patients, one in Orange County and the second in Los Angeles County, had recently returned from the epicenter of the outbreak in Wuhan.

The Arizona case came out of Maricopa County, and no other information was immediately available on that patient.

The two other US cases were previously confirmed in Snohomish County, Washington, last Tuesday and Chicago, Illinois on Friday.