South China Sea crisis: How China is 'on the brink' of conflict with 'severe consequences' 
 The stark warning has come from numerous researchers, including those from the Council of Foreign Relations, who have made damning assessments of China's actions in the region. They said: "China has increasingly interfered with freedom of navigation, warning military and commercial vessels away from its artificial island bases. “It has also harassed vessels belonging to regional claimants, conducted maritime surveys of dubious legality, and attempted dangerous manoeuvres with its own military craft.”

Even more harrowing is an assessment by Professor John Blaxland of Australian National University - who claimed that that while tension is commonplace in the South China Sea, 2020 may see this escalate higher than ever before.
He said: "There is a gnawing sense that this decade may see us get closer to the brink than in generations."
Key in Professor Blaxland's summary is the increasing challenges facing China on the domestic front, which he believes could provoke heightened aggression from Beijing in the region as a result.
He notes that Chinese President Xi Jinping is battling with economic stagnation and a shrinking population.

This, coinciding with Beijing's pre-existing "inclination to project blame on others using the ‘century of humiliation’ as a deflection from its woes”, contributes to a confrontational mindset, Professor Blaxland adds.
The South China Sea has huge economic benefits to those who stake a claim in the region, as its waters boast a wealth of resources and also form a crucial area for shipping and trade going into and out of Asia.
With the Chinese government looking to expand its Belt and Road Initiative and secure economic dominance, the South China Sea is crucial if the country is to reverse its domestic issues.
READ MORE:South China Sea panic: Philippines fears erupt

These have been complicated even further by the breakout of the coronavirus in China, killing 81 people so far with almost 3000 confirmed ill.
The city of Wuhan, the centre of the virus' impact, is in a state of lockdown and has affected areas all over the country.
Shanghai has banned businesses from returning to work until February 10, and the national new year holiday has been extended by three days in an attempt to contain the spread.
DON'T MISS:
South China Sea: Japan vows to broach ‘outstanding issues’ with China [INSIGHT]
South China Sea: How Philippines could drag US into war with China ANALYSIS]
South China Sea fury: China now ‘outmatches US in every way’ [INSIGHT]

Several cities have also had travel bans imposed, leaving the country in a state of chaos.
Xi Jinping faces a tough task of helping his country recover from a series of domestic issues, meaning the South China Sea could witness even more aggression from the country's forces.
Last year, tense standoffs between China smaller nations such as Vietnam and Indonesia left many fearing an accidental conflict. Beijing's difficult start to 2020 will not ease those fears.