Coronavirus Live Updates: First Case in Cambodia Confirmed 
 Worshippers wear masks to prevent an outbreak of a new coronavirus as they make offerings of incense sticks during a Lunar New Year celebration at Che Kung Temple, in Hong Kong, China, on Jan. 26, 2020. (Tyrone Siu/Reuters)

The 2019 Novel Coronavirus has sickened thousands around the world and killed dozens. The virus continues spreading to new countries.

It has no vaccine and no known cure.

Cambodian officials on Monday said a patient in the country tested positive for the Wuhan coronavirus for the first time.

Health Minister Mam Bunheng said that the patient is a Chinese national who is in Sihanoukville, a city of about 90,000 on the southwest coast, the Bangkok Post reported.

The man traveled to the coastal city from Wuhan in China earlier this month, Bunheng said.

“People who return from Wuhan city, Hubei province of the People’s Republic of China must regularly check their health and if they have fever symptoms, cough, running nose, …please hurry to seek medical treatment at public health centers,” he said.

The coronavirus has spread to a number of Asian countries, including Vietnam, Singapore, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, and Malaysia.

Officials in Canada said that the wife of the man who was the country’s first person infected with the Wuhan coronavirus also tested positive for the virus.

The woman has been in self-imposed isolation since she and her husband arrived in Toronto last week, officials said. The couple flew on a China Southern Airlines flight that department from Guangzhou.

They originally departed from Wuhan, the epicenter of the virus.

Dr. David Williams, chief medical officer of health, said that risk to other Canadians remains low at this time.

“We are working alongside Toronto Public Health, who has been in regular contact with the individual during their self-isolation period,” said Dr. Williams in a statement. “Given the fact that she has been in self-isolation, the risk to Ontarians remains low.”

Health authorities in the Australian state of New South Wales have confirmed a 21-year-old woman has tested positive to coronavirus—making her the fifth person being treated in Australia.

A woman who was on the last flight out of Wuhan to arrive in Sydney has tested positive to coronavirus, taking to five the number of people being treated in Australia for the potentially deadly illness.

NSW Health on Monday afternoon confirmed a 21-year-old woman who arrived at Sydney Airport on Thursday subsequently developed symptoms and tested positive.

Chief health officer Dr. Kerry Chant said the woman was met at the airport by health officials and given advice on what to do if she became unwell—and she had followed that guidance.

Chinese authorities are struggling to contain the new coronavirus outbreak as the death toll and number of confirmed cases continue to climb daily.

Authorities are adding travel restrictions throughout Hubei Province and in other areas to try to curb the virus, which has an unknown origin and keeps spreading to additional countries.

Cities like Wuhan have been quarantined while Beijing said it was banning all tour groups that leave from the capital to other Chinese cities and overseas.

Virginia health officials said three people are under investigation for possibly having 2019 Novel Coronavirus, the new coronavirus from China.

Two people in central Virginia and one person in northern Virginia is under investigation, the state Department of Health said in a statement.

The people meet certain criteria provided by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and are being tested to see if they have the virus.

Lab tests usually only take around five hours, but because of the volume of tests submitted from around the country tests are taking longer to process, officials with the agency said last week in a phone call with reporters. An official with the Virginia Department of Health told WTOP that the test results are expected later this week.

Cathy He, Zachary Stieber, Frank Fang, Nicole Hao, Reuters, and the AAP contributed to this report.