Below 3232, SPX May Head For Next Market Crash 
 Once again all eyes have stuck at the minute-to-minute development on the Chinese front. It is not U.S. this time! But a tiny virus seems to be a blasting concern for the global economy. Corona virus looks evident enough to hurt the global economy at much greater extent than the 17-month long tariff tussle between the two major economies of the world. There is no doubt that the panic has been barreling through markets as the death toll from the pandemic hit 80, altering the start of a trading week whose focus would otherwise have been on a slew of potentially positive earnings releases and market-friendly, post-trade-deal events.

Perhaps, Gold has sensed well in advance that an unrecognized danger has had stepped under-earth to dent global equity markets, while they were busy in moving towards new peaks; while started to move upward with equally strong pace along with global equity indices since a long time back; and finally formed a strong platform at $1550 to continue its fire-work from there.

Finally, I conclude that a sustainable move of SP 500 Futures below the level of 3220 will confirm the continuity of this steep fall, which started with a gap-down on January 27th, 2020.


	SP 500 Futures Monthly Chart



	
		
		
	





	SP 500 Futures Weekly Chart



	
		
		
	





	SP 500 Futures Daily Chart



	
		
		
	





	SP 500 Futures 4 Hr. Chart



	
		
		
	





	SP 500 Futures 1 Hr. Chart



	
		
		
	



Disclaimer

1. This content is for information and educational purposes only and should not be considered as an investment advice or an investment recommendation. Past performance is not an indication of future results. All trading carries risk. Only risk capital be involved which you are prepared to lose.

2. Remember, YOU push the buy button and the sell button. Investors are always reminded that before making any investment, you should do your own proper due diligence on any name directly or indirectly mentioned in this article. Investors should also consider seeking advice from an investment and/or tax professional before making any investment decisions. Any material in this article should be considered general information, and not relied on as a formal investment recommendation.
	Below 3232, SPX May Head For Next Market Crash




VIDEOUpcoming Global Equity Market Crash