1,500 returned travellers from coronavirus-hit Wuhan told to 'self-isolate' 
 People who have returned to the UK from coronavirus-hit Wuhan in China have been told to "self-isolate" for two weeks - even if they have no symptoms.

In a significant ramping up of the precautions in the UK around the virus, Health Secretary Matt Hancock warned officials could not be 100% certain that the virus is not spread by people who are not displaying symptoms.

The move means around 1,500 people who have returned from Wuhan since January 10 should isolate themselves for 14 days from the date of leaving China for the UK.

Ministers have said they are working to get Britons out of coronavirus-hit Hubei province in China, with Prime Minister Boris Johnson saying the Government is doing "everything we can".

Officials estimate that up to 200 UK citizens currently there will want to return to the UK.

If these Britons are flown home by the Foreign Office, health officials will also tell them to "self-isolate" for 14 days.

Mr Hancock told MPs in the Commons: "Coronaviruses do not usually spread if people don't have symptoms - but we cannot be 100% certain.

"From today, we are therefore asking anyone in the UK who has returned from Wuhan in the last 14 days to self-isolate.

"Stay indoors and avoid contact with other people - and to contact NHS 111.

"If you are in Northern Ireland, you should phone your GP.

"If you develop respiratory symptoms within 14 days of travel to the area, and are now in the UK, call your GP or ring 111 informing them of your symptoms and your recent travel to the city.

"Do not leave your home until you have been given advice by a clinician."

Mr Hancock said efforts are ongoing to trace people who have arrived in the UK from Wuhan.

He added: "Having eliminated those who we know have since left the country, there are 1,460 people we are seeking to locate.

"The Foreign Office is rapidly advancing measures to bring UK nationals back from Hubei Province.

"I have asked my officials to ensure there are appropriate measures in place upon arrival to look after them and protect the public.

"If you are in Hubei Province and wish to leave, please get in contact with the Foreign Office."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson has insisted plans are being worked on to help UK citizens in Wuhan and assured "we are doing everything" to screen people arriving from affected regions.

In an interview at the King's College London Mathematics School after launching a post-Brexit visa plan, the PM was asked for detail on how frustrated citizens would be assisted.

"We are looking at everything we can to give reassurance to those people in Wuhan and you will be hearing a bit more in due course but I don't want to pre-empt the decisions we are going to make," he replied.

"Obviously, we are doing everything we can to ensure that people who do come to this country are properly screened and checked if they have come from an area that is known to have the infection.

"So far there is still no case of somebody with coronavirus here the UK but clearly there are a lot of cases in China and it is spreading."

Earlier today, former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt suggested airlifts for UK citizens in China and warned of the pressure the coronavirus could put on the NHS.

Asked if he supported flying Britons back from Wuhan and elsewhere, he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I think I would be very sympathetic and I'm sure the Foreign Office would be too."

He said the NHS is well-equipped to deal with patients returning with the virus but warned that it could strain the service.

"This is a very difficult time of year for the NHS - it is the most difficult time. But, again, my experience is that the NHS does know how to cope with these kinds of emergencies.

"I think the thing that will be difficult is the knock-on impact on other NHS services," he said.

"I think it would be very, very challenging for the NHS in terms of the regular workload but I have absolutely no doubt that, when it comes to doing what comes to necessary to isolate the virus and keep the public safe, our doctors and nurses will do exactly what they need to do."

Some 73 people have now been tested for coronavirus in the UK and all tests have come back negative, the Department of Health and Social Care said in a statement.

The Foreign Office has confirmed it is working on making an "option available" for British nationals to leave Wuhan in the Hubei province in China.

British citizens in the region have been told to call the FCO on +86 (0) 10 8529 6600 or (+44) (0)207 008 1500 should they need assistance.

A spokesperson said: "We continue to monitor developments closely and are in close touch with the Chinese authorities.

"The safety and security of British nationals is always our primary concern."