Coronavirus claims first life in China's capital, as spread continue across the globe 
 China's capital Beijing has reported its first death caused by the new coronavirus as more cases of infection are reported around the world despite unprecedent efforts to stop its spread.

The state television CCTV reported on Monday the 50-year-old man had been to Wuhan, the centre of the coronavirus outbreak, and was confirmed to have the virus on January 22.

China says 81 people have died of the virus. But it was not immediately clear if the latest death was included in the total.

This comes as two more cases of the virus were identified in Cambodia and Canada.

Cambodia confirmed its first case of the new coronavirus in the country, Health Minister Mam Bunheng said on Monday.

The patient was a Chinese man who came with his family from Wuhan to the coastal city of Sihanoukville earlier this month, the minister said.

Mam Bunheng said the patient left Wuhan on January 23 and developed a fever on January 25.

The patient is now stable, he said.

The minister urged people in Cambodia, which has a large population of Chinese investors and workers, to be vigilant.

"And if they have fever symptoms, cough, running nose … please hurry to seek medical treatment at public health centres."

In Canada, the wife of the country's first novel coronavirus patient tested positive for the virus at a public health laboratory, the province of Ontario's health ministry said in a release on Monday.

The patient has been in self-isolation and is being monitored, the ministry said.

"From what we know, Wuhan novel coronavirus transmits through close contact and there's no closer contact than a husband and wife," said Ontario's health minister Christine Elliott in a tweet.

The first confirmed Canadian patient, a man in his 50s, had mild symptoms while on a flight to Toronto from Guangzhou, Canada's chief health officer Theresa Tam told reporters on Sunday.

The man arrived in Toronto on January 22 from Wuhan, and is currently being treated in isolation in a public hospital, Ontario health officials said on Saturday.

Countries around the world, including France, Japan, US, Russia and Myanmar, are planning to evacuate diplomatic staff and private citizens from Chinese areas hit by the coronavirus.

France expects to repatriate up to a few hundred of its 800 citizens living in the Wuhan area. Evacuees will have to spend 14 days in quarantine to avoid spreading the virus in France.

Japan is expected to arrange charter flights as early as Tuesday for any of its citizens who wish to return from Wuhan, two sources familiar with the matter said.

Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi said about 430 Japanese nationals have been confirmed to be in Hubei province.

The Dutch government is assessing ways to evacuate 20 Dutch citizens from Wuhan, press agency ANP reported.

Authorities in Myanmar said they had cancelled a planned evacuation of 60 students from Mandalay who were studying in Wuhan.

Kyaw Yin Myint, a spokesman for the Mandalay municipal government, told Reuters that a "final decision" had been made to send them back after 14 days, once the virus' incubation period had passed.

US President Donald Trump offered China "any help that is necessary" on Monday to control the virus.

"We are in very close communication with China concerning the virus," Mr Trump, who waged a bruising 18 month trade war with Beijing, said in a tweet.

Meanwhile, the mayor of Wuhan said he was willing to resign if it helped contain the virus.

Mayor Zhou Xianwang told state broadcaster CCTV that both he and Wuhan's Communist Party secretary were willing to take responsibility for closing off the city, including being removed from office.

As the virus spread through China and overseas, transportation links to the city were cut last week to prevent more people from leaving.

Mr Zhou also responded to allegations that the city was slow to disclose information in the early days of the outbreak.

He said local governments were restricted from releasing information about infectious diseases without authorisation.