More Toronto residents are wearing face masks. But will they help protect you from getting the coronavirus? | The Star 
 With a second presumptive case of the Wuhan coronavirus reported Monday morning in Toronto, the temptation to stock up on surgical masks at your local pharmacy might be high.

But are they going to help you from getting infected?

While masks are selling out in downtown Toronto, medical experts say they won’t do much to prevent against contracting a virus in everyday life.

Whether the mask will help “depends on who is using the mask and how they’re using it,” Dr. Susy Hota, an assistant U of T professor with the department of medicine, division of infectious disease, told the Star on Monday morning.

“The approach of just having everyone in the public walking around with no symptoms feeling well, just wearing a mask, I think that’s really just giving people a false sense of security,” Hota said. “We don’t really have any evidence to suggest that’s a useful way to stop infections.”

In a conference call Thursday, Theresa Tam, chief public health officer of Canada, said “there is no recommendation to wear a mask when you’re going about your daily regular activities.”

In fact, doing so could actually present some risk due to the frequency with which the wearer is touching their face.

“You’re putting your fingers up and down your face, removing your mask,” Tam said.

Masks are typically used to keep germs in, rather than keep them out — this means they’re more effective in hospital settings than out in public, medical experts say.

Health-care workers might encourage a mask if a sick person has recently entered a hospital in order to prevent them from spreading a virus further to other patients.

If you do feel inclined to wear one, pair the mask with other prevention methods.

Washing your hands is the leading way to keep from getting sick. Wash with soap and water, or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer.

Additionally, Toronto Public Health suggests receiving a flu shot as a first line of defence. Then, avoid touching your faces, avoiding close contact with those who are ill and staying home in the event that you become sick.