U.S. officials urge calm as coronavirus death toll continues to rise, markets tumble worldwide 
 Federal health officials on Monday sought to calm fears over the rapidly growing coronavirus outbreak, insisting that the risk to the general public remains low even as China scrambles to stop the mysterious new illness from spreading further.The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said no new cases of the pneumonia-like infection have been confirmed in the U.S. since Sunday, when the total number of patients jumped from two to five. But health professionals across 26 states were investigating at least 110 possible cases Monday, according to the CDC, while Chinese authorities have confirmed more than 2,700 cases and 81 deaths in their country. The figures alarmed investors around the world, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average and SP 500 each falling about 1.4%. The outbreak, along with China’s drastic measures to contain it, has also affected the tourism industry and airlines as travelers begin to postpone or cancel their trips to the country.Chinese authorities have effectively locked down 17 cities, which are home to more than 50 million, by temporarily suspending public transportation to try to control the outbreak. One of those cities, Wuhan, is believed to be the epicenter of the virus, which may be linked to animals but has since been spreading from human to human.Dr. Nancy Messonnier, director of the CDC’s National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, assured reporters in phone briefing late Monday morning that there’s no evidence the disease is linked to imported Chinese goods or is spreading in any community in the U.S.All five U.S. patients diagnosed with the virus so far had traveled to China, according to the CDC.President Trump also weighed in Monday, saying the administration is in “very close communication” with China and President Xi Jinping.“Very few cases reported in USA, but strongly on watch,” he tweeted. “We have offered China and President Xi any help that is necessary. Our experts are extraordinary!”CDC officials acknowledged, however, that the outbreak remains “a serious threat" and that the U.S. will likely see more confirmed cases in the upcoming days. “As I’ve said before, this is a rapidly changing situation,” Messonnier told reporters Monday, adding that more U.S. airports may see enhanced screenings for passengers returning from China.As of this week, U.S. travelers coming from Wuhan must go to one of five airports for screening, including New York City’s JFK and Chicago’s O’Hare.The first case of the new coronavirus in the U.S. was confirmed last Tuesday in Washington state. The case was followed by another in Chicago three days later and three others on Sunday — two in California and one in Arizona. Although additional tests are pending, a group of Chinese experts claimed Monday the virus came from a large animal and seafood market in Wuhan, Australian news outlet News.com.au reported. CDC Director Robert Redfield confirmed in a tweet Monday that the virus, dubbed 2019-nCoV, is not spreading in the U.S.“We understand people may worry about the new #coronavirus,” he wrote. “In today’s connected world, an outbreak anywhere can be a risk everywhere... CDC continues to believe the risk to the US public is now low.”