China coronavirus: US health officials say risk to public remains low 
 Officials from the top US public health agency said on Monday that 110 people around the country with a fever and respiratory illness have been placed under close observation to determine if they have been infected with the China coronavirus.
Officials from the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said the “persons under investigation” (PUIs) came from 26 states and had all either travelled to Wuhan or had come into contact with confirmed infected patients.


The number “will only increase”, Nancy Messonnier, director of the CDC’s National Centre for Immunisation and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD), said in an agency briefing.
But the immediate health risk of the pneumonia-like illness – known as 2019-nCoV – to the US public remained low, she said: “At this time in the US, this virus is not spreading in the community.”
The CDC had extracted and analysed the genomes from the first and second confirmed cases in the US and found that the virus did not appear to have mutated, said Messonnier.

“All the sequences we’ve extracted are similar to the one that China initially posted a couple of weeks ago,” she said.
Three positive diagnoses over the weekend brought the total number of confirmed cases in the US to five.
As of Monday, at least 2,839 cases have been confirmed in China, with the vast majority coming from Wuhan, where the contagion first broke out.
The death of a 50-year-old man in Beijing on Monday brought the official death toll to 82.
Thousands left Wuhan for Hong Kong, Bangkok, Singapore or Tokyo before lockdown
Experts believe that the true number of infections in Wuhan greatly exceeds the official figure, with a group of Hong Kong academics announcing research on Monday that estimated the number of those infected to be almost 44,000.
International cases are also on the rise, with dozens confirmed across East and southeast Asia.
Macau authorities announced the city's seventh case on Monday, following the diagnosis of a 67-year-old woman who had travelled there from Wuhan.
News of the case came the same day that Macau, a semi-autonomous city state, ramped up measures against the virus, rolling out blanket screening of all people from Hubei province in every hotel. Authorities there announced on Sunday that about 1,100 Hubei visitors in the city needed to return to the mainland or be placed in isolation.

Canada has announced two cases: a husband and wife who had travelled to Toronto from Wuhan on Wednesday. Public health officials there announced on Saturday that the husband was admitted to Toronto’s Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre on Thursday, with the coronavirus diagnosed two days later. The husband is in stable condition and his wife has been in self-isolation since arriving in Toronto, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation reported on Monday.
Across the border, pressure has been growing on the administration of US President Donald Trump to follow the lead of several Asia-Pacific countries and roll out emergency measures.
In separate appeals, two prominent senators – Chuck Schumer of New York, the senior Democrat in the Senate, as well as Senator Rick Scott, Republican of Florida – have called on Trump to announce a national public health emergency. The move would unlock millions of dollars for the CDC to deploy in combating the disease’s spread within US borders.
China coronavirus: Premier Li Keqiang orders Wuhan hospitals to admit patients
Trump said in a tweet on Monday that his administration had offered Beijing “any help that is necessary” and that his administration was “strongly on watch”.

We are in very close communication with China concerning the virus. Very few cases reported in USA, but strongly on watch. We have offered China and President Xi any help that is necessary. Our experts are extraordinary!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 27, 2020

The World Health Organisation decided last week that, with no evidence of human-to-human transmission of the virus outside China, it was “too early” to declare an international emergency. The organisation’s director general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, is now in Beijing meeting with officials.
Additional reporting by Cissy Zhou

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

More from South China Morning Post:China coronavirus: Hong Kong medical experts call for ‘draconian’ measures in city as research estimates there are already 44,000 cases in WuhanWuhan coronavirus confirmed in 29 of China’s 31 provincesChina sends in military doctors to help Wuhan hospitals fight coronavirus outbreakFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.