Joseph Parker ready for Daniel Dubois if WBO eliminator is ordered 
 Joseph Parker would be open to a WBO final eliminator against Daniel Dubois as he negotiates a clouded route to a world title opportunity.

Parker is at No 2 in the WBO rankings, one place higher than Dubois, a rising star in the talent-stacked British heavyweight scene.

They could be ordered to fight for the right to become the next WBO mandatory challenger as champion Anthony Joshua eyes a defence against the WBA's top-ranked Oleksandr Usyk.

Joshua is juggling mandatory fights for his WBO and IBF belts and now appears confident he can fulfil both those commitments, wanting to avoiding having to vacate a title.

READ MORE:

 * Wach one of four options for Parker

 * Coronavirus strands NZ boxers

 * Parker teaming up with Fury

 * Parker won't duck Usyk

 * Ruiz v Whyte?

"I think anything is possible," Parker's manager David Higgins Higgins told Sky Sports as the heavyweight division awaits to see what unfolds from Joshua and his promoter Eddie Hearn who also looks after Parker.

"It's great that Dubois is making waves and provided he keeps doing that, it's very possible that Joseph Parker would fight him. They just have to keep heading in the right direction.

"I personally think Joseph Parker has too much pedigree and too good a head on his shoulders for Dubois.

"Dubois clearly has great power. There's a lot of unknown there. I think Parker has got too much class. If we were ordered to fight, or put in that position, it's something that could be discussed down the track."

Parker is in Las Vegas training for his opening fight of the year in Texas on February 29. Frustratingly, his opponent still remains unconfirmed though it won't be Dubois – just yet.

Dubois, a hard-hitting 22-year-old, has quickly amassed 14 straight victories as a professional including 13 knockouts and has claimed the British and Commonwealth titles.

His big scalp was respected American veteran Kevin Johnson though that victory came via points.

Dubois has a common opponent with Parker, having destroyed Razvan Cojanu inside two rounds last year. Parker laboured to a points win against long-time sparring partner Cojanu in 2017.

Hearn told Sky Sports he remains hopeful of putting Usyk up against Dereck Chisora in London in late March to keep him busy ahead of a world title showdown with Joshua.