When you should be worried about the Wuhan coronavirus, which has killed at least 81 people 
 The Wuhan coronavirus is spreading around the globe. In China, where the virus originated, it's sickened thousands of people.The coronavirus has also arrived in the US, where five people have been confirmed ill. US health authorities say the risk of contracting the virus is still low in the country. Health experts stress that those worried about catching the infection needn't be concerned unless they've been to Wuhan, or come in contact with someone who was there recently and has been sick.The virus also doesn't appear to be especially dangerous and deadly like SARS, though just like the flu it can kill people, especially the elderly and people with certain preexisting health conditions.Visit Insider's homepage for more stories.The Wuhan coronavirus is mysterious, deadly, and circling the globe.As of Monday, China said at least 81 people have been killed by the virus, which was first reported in December.The coronavirus, named 2019-nCoV, is part of the same family as many common flu strains, as well as SARS and MERS, but this virus is creating a buzz because it has never before been seen in humans. Scientists suspect it might've originated in bats and first infected humans in a Chinese animal market in the city of Wuhan, but questions about the exact root of the illness remain. 2019-nCoV is now being transmitted person-to-person too, and it is usually passed around via droplets that are expelled when a sick person coughs or sneezes on someone else. Initial symptoms of the coronavirus are remarkably flu- and pneumonia-like, and it's impossible to know whether an illness is the Wuhan coronavirus or another viral respiratory illness without laboratory testing.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has confirmed five cases of the virus in the US: two in California (Los Angeles and Orange County), one in Chicago, another near Seattle in Washington, and a fifth in Arizona at Arizona State University.All of the people in the US who've been ill with the coronavirus recently traveled back to the states from Wuhan, China, and the CDC says the risk to the general public still appears low. "We understand that many people in the United States are worried about this virus, and how it will affect Americans," Dr. Nancy Messonnier, director of the CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, told reporters on a call Monday. "We have a handful of patients with this new virus here in the United States, however, at this time in the US, this virus is not spreading in the community."If you haven't been to China, or been around sick people who've been to China, you're probably fine
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Samantha Lee/Insider
 
 
 
Coronaviruses like the novel Wuhan virus are not as contagious as some other illnesses, and they only survive for a few hours on surfaces outside the body. The CDC said there have not been any cases of the Wuhan virus associated with imported goods from China.But inside the human body, the virus can incubate for anywhere from two to 14 days before people first start showing signs of illness. That means people can likely pass around the virus to others before they even know they're sick. "The average lay person in the US does not need to be particularly alarmed at this point," Dr. Eric Toner, a senior scientist at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, told Insider last week. "There's essentially no risk to anybody in the US right now if they have not traveled to China in the last couple of weeks, or been in close contact with someone who is sick who has traveled to China in the last couple of weeks."Toner said there were a couple of clear indicators to help you decide when to become more vigilant about catching the new virus."The first way to know is by whether you have contact with Wuhan or other parts of China where the disease appears to be spreading," he said. "We're not 100% sure about the spectrum of illness caused by this disease, but it appears that some people have very mild illnesses, just typical cold symptoms. Others have been critically ill."For people traveling to China, the CDC recommends avoiding all "nonessential" travel into the Hubei province, where the virus originated. There's also a quarantine lockdown on at least 12 Chinese cities, including Wuhan, at the epicenter of the outbreak. People who are going to other areas of China from the US should avoid contact with sick people while traveling, and connect with a healthcare provider before taking off, the CDC said. The advice is especially critical for older adults, and people who have a pre-existing health condition, as the virus appears to be more fatal for those groups. There is no treatment or vaccine for the Wuhan coronavirus, and patient care is similar to the flu.One of the best ways to protect yourself from this virus, like any virus, is to practice good hand washing with soap and warm water and keep at least 6 feet away from anyone who's sick or coughing. (If you have to take care of someone who's sick, wear a respirator.)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A health official scanning the body temperature of a passenger as she arrived at the Soekarno-Hatta International Airport in Tangerang, Indonesia, on Wednesday.
 
 
 
 AP Photo/Tatan Syuflana
 
 
"Based on the very preliminary information we have, it doesn't appear to be as severe as SARS or MERS," Toner said of the new virus. "On the other hand, it may be reasonably transmissible [from person to person], which both SARS and MERS were not ... If it is more transmissible, then it's cause for significant concern."Click here for Insider's full coverage of the Wuhan virus.Read more:The deadly Wuhan coronavirus has spread to the US — authorities have confirmed a case in Washington state17 people are now dead from the mysterious Wuhan coronavirus. Here's everything we know about the disease spreading across China and beyond.China banned live animal sales in Wuhan, after a food market selling wolves and civet cats was linked to a deadly virusThe US has reported its first case of the deadly Wuhan coronavirus. Here's how to protect yourself while traveling.