Coronavirus LIVE: First case of deadly virus confirmed in Sri Lanka as death toll at 81 
 A Sri Lankan health official has confirmed a Chinese tourist in her 40s has been diagnosed with the virus. Sudath Samaraweera, the chief epidemiologist with Sri Lanka's Ministry of Health said: “A Chinese lady, who is in her 40s, arrived on the 19th as a tourist and fell ill on the 25th and was confirmed as having the coronavirus following a test on Monday.” Earlier today Shanghai ordered a two-week shutdown of all companies in the city in a desperate bid to halt the terrifying spread of the disease.

Officials announced the emergency measure covered all government and private companies but utilities and some other firms such as medical equipment manufacturers and pharmaceutical groups were exempt.
They said the ban on operations would be in place until Sunday February 9.
All schools and universities should remain closed until Monday February 17.
The order came as Beijing extended the Lunar New Year holidays to Sunday February 2 to strengthen the prevention and control of the coronavirus outbreak which has so far claimed 81 lives.
Shanghai Health Commission chiefs confirmed 13 new coronavirus cases today and said one patient was in a critical condition.
Officials said one patient had died from the flu-like virus in the city and 52 were receiving treatment.
BREAKING NEWS:Coronavirus likely to hit UK as medics brace themselves for outbreak

  
Coronavirus Live (Image: GETTY)
The patients - 29 men and 24 women - range in age from seven to 88-years-old.
Among the patients, 20 have lived in Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak, 21 have recently travelled to Wuhan and 12 have connections with infected patients.
SCROLL DOWN FOR LIVE UPDATES ON THE CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK 

6.10pm update: Matt Hancock urges Britons returning from Wuhan to ‘self-isolate’
Health Secretary Matt Hancock has urged anyone who has returned to the UK from coronavirus-hit Wuhan in China to “self isolate” even if they have no symptoms.
Mr Hancock told the House of Commons: “Coronaviruses do not usually spread if people don't have symptoms - but we cannot be 100 percent certain.
"From today, we are therefore asking anyone in the UK who has returned from Wuhan in the last 14 days to self-isolate.
"Stay indoors and avoid contact with other people - and to contact NHS 111.
"If you are in Northern Ireland, you should phone your GP.
"If you develop respiratory symptoms within 14 days of travel to the area, and are now in the UK, call your GP or ring 111 informing them of your symptoms and your recent travel to the city.
"Do not leave your home until you have been given advice by a clinician."
5.00pm update: Deadly virus confirmed in Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka has confirmed its first case of China’s deadly coronavirus.
Sudath Samaraweera, the chief epidemiologist with Sri Lanka's Ministry of Health said: “A Chinese lady, who is in her 40s, arrived on the 19th as a tourist and fell ill on the 25th and was confirmed as having the coronavirus following a test on Monday.”
2.12pm update: UK health chiefs say 73 tested for coronavirus give all clear
The Department of Health and Social Care said 73 people had now been tested for coronavirus in the UK and all tests had come back negative.
The figure emerged after Public Health England acknowledged the first UK case is likely to come from somebody already in the country.
12.31pm update: Canada confirms second case of coronavirus
Ontario's Chief Medical Officer of Health said doctors had confirmed a second presumptive positive case of coronavirus in Toronto.
12.25pm update: Britain in international talks over Wuhan evacuation
The UK Government is talking to international partners to find solutions to help British and other foreign nationals get out of the Chinese city of Wuhan.
A spokesman for Boris Johnson said: “The Foreign Office have said this morning that they are exploring options for British nationals leaving the province.
“The Foreign Office are in close contact with international partners, including the US and European countries, to investigate possible solutions.
"The safety of British nationals is our top priority."
The move comes as Britain was coming under growing pressure to secure the evacuation of citizens trapped in the stricken city.
The Foreign Office said anyone in the province who needs assistance can call a 24-hour helpline.
A spokesman said: "We are working to make an option available for British nationals to leave Hubei province due to the heavy travel restrictions and increased difficulty of accessing consular or medical assistance.
"The safety and security of British nationals is our number one priority.
"We continue to monitor developments closely and are in close touch with the Chinese authorities."

  
Coronavirus symptoms (Image: EXPRESS.CO.UK)
12.05pm update: Wuhan mayor admits mistakes were made when outbreak started
Wuhan mayor Zhou Xianwang has admitted information on the coronavirus outbreak that started in his city "not disclosed in a timely fashion."
Mr Zhou told state-run CCTV "we didn’t effectively use that information" and acknowledged people were "not satisfied" with the rate that his government released relevant details.
He said under Chinese law on infectious diseases, the local government first needs to report the outbreak to the national health department, and then get approval from State Council before they can make an announcement.
The mayor said: ”I hope everyone can understand that this is an infectious disease which has special channels to be disclosed in accordance with law.”
He said he took full responsibility for the "unprecedented" decision to lock down the city.
11.07am update: Germany considers evacuation of citizens from China
Germany is considering evacuating its citizens from the Chinese regions affected by coronavirus.
Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said: “We are now considering a possible evacuation of all Germans who are willing to leave.”
Mr Maas said a team from the German embassy in Beijing was on its way to Wuhan to help Germans there.
He said Germans should avoid all travel to China that was not absolutely necessary.

  
Shanghai residents venture out to celebrate Chinese New Year (Image: REUTERS)
10.43am update: US confirms five coronavirus cases
The number of confirmed cases of the new coronavirus in the US has risen to five.
The Centres for Disease Control and Prevention said all five patients had recently travelled to Wuhan and were now been treated for the flu-like virus in isolation at hospitals.
Three new cases were confirmed yesterday one in Maricopa County, Arizona, Los Angeles, California and Orange County, California.
Two others were previously reported in Everett, Washington, and Chicago.
Health officials said the patients will be evaluated case by case before they are discharged.
10.23am: France plans airlift of citizens trapped in Wuhan
French citizens trapped in the striken city of Wuhan are to be evacuated by air.
Health Minister Agnès Buzyn said the operation could involve hundreds of French nationals.
She said: "The Prime Minister has decided to respond to the French people of Wuhan and their request to return. Our consulate team is in contact with the nationals. All those who wish to return will be able to do so.
“The Prime Minister has requested repatriation by direct air transport with the agreement of the Chinese authorities. We are arranging a direct flight from Wuhan.”
Ms Buzyn said those who return to France will be monitored in one place for 14 days to avoid any spread of the virus.

  
French Health Minister Agnès Buzyn said French national were being airlifted from Wuhan (Image: GETTY)
10.09am update: Public health expert warns of global epidemic
A senior public health expert said the world should prepare for a global coronavirus epimic as the outbreak claimed more lives in China.
Professor Gabriel Leung, chair of public health medicine at University of Hong Kong (HKU), gave his grim forecast on the likely extent of the outbreak today.
He said: “Population quarantine may not be able to substantially change the course of the epidemic in the other major city clusters.
“In addition to Wuhan, China could see epicentres of self-sustaining epidemics in other major cities in the mainland, including in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen.
"It is not a prediction, it is not certain, but these finding makes us concerned enough to alert the authorities and to alert the public.”
According to Prof Leung's forecast, the number of cases could peak between mid-May and mid-April in major cities.
He said only “substantial draconian measures limiting population mobility sooner rather than later” would prevent this from happening.
And he warned: “People need to be prepared for the outbreak to become a global epidemic. It is not a certainty by any stretch of the imagination but we must prepare better for it.”

  
Shoppers in Hong Kong wear face masks amid growing fears of a global coronavirus epidemic (Image: GETTY)
9.36am update: Germany updates China travel advisory
Germany has become the latest country to warn against all but essential travel to China.
The foreign ministry’s updated travel advisory calls on citizens to consider postponing non-urgent travel to China.
Germans already in China are urged to register on German government crisis preventive list, avoid the province of Hubei, plan for travel restrictions in the area, obey the orders of local security forces and take into consideration the World Health Organisation and Robert-Koch Institute advisories.
9.14am update: More cities in lockdown as coronavirus terror spreads
Officials in the city of Anshun in China's Guizhou province have ordered the closure of all public venues and cancelled all public events. Anshun has almost 2.5 million residents.
Nearly 60 million people have been affected by partial or full lockdowns in Chinese cities as the country's government steps up its response.

  8.32am update: New coronavirus case confirmed in Australia
A Chinese student who flew into Australia from the stricken city of Wuhan last Wednesday has tested positive for coronavirus and is now in isolation.
Officials from the University of New South Wales in Sydney said the student did not attend any classes and stayed on her own in campus accommodation before being taken to hospital.
The university has set up a helpline for concerned students.
Australia now has five confirmed cases of coronavirus.
8am update: Beijing launched £7bn bid to block pandemic
China’s finance ministry and National Health Commission have extended £6.68bn to help contain the coronavirus outbreak, according to a statement on the ministry’s website.
(Additional reporting by Simon Osborne)