Stock soars for Cincinnati firm that could help combat coronavirus 
 The value of Meridian Bioscience Inc. stock soared by nearly 40% on Monday on news that one of the firm’s test kits is being used by diagnostic companies and laboratories in China to develop fast and accurate screening assays for the deadly new strain of coronavirus.


Stock in Newtown-based Meridian (Nasdaq: VIVO) was trading as high as $13.31 today, up $3.78 from a previous close of $9.53. 


            
            
        Shares were trading around $11.63 this afternoon. That was up $2.10, or more than 22%, from the previous close. The stock has ranged in value from $7.63 to $17.71 over the past 52 weeks.


The latest bump followed Meridian’s report that its Lyo-Ready 1-Step RT-qPCR Mix is being used in connection with sequence information from the virus.


There is no vaccine to prevent the new strain of coronavirus, which is called 2019-n CoV. The respiratory illness was first detected in Wuhan, China, but has spread rapidly to other countries.


China has restricted travel for 35 million people because of the virus, which has been linked to 81 deaths and nearly 3,000 other cases. Hundreds of airline flights have been canceled, and 12 cities in China are under travel restrictions.


I reported last week that Procter  Gamble Co. is keeping an eye on how the outbreak of the deadly new coronavirus could affect not only PG’s second largest market but also its employees. 


The Cincinnati-based maker of consumer goods such as Olay skin care lotion (NYSE: PG) employs more than 8,000 people in the company’s Greater China market, which includes mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. PG has operations across the region, including eight manufacturing plants and 11 distribution centers.


Over the last few days, Meridian has seen significant demand for its Lyo-Ready One-Step RT-qPCR Mix, said Dr. Steve Hawkins, product marketing manager. 


“This ready-to-use, lyophilization-friendly mix is designed to improve the accuracy of assays, increase operational efficiencies and reduce their overall costs, making screening fast and affordable,” Hawkins said.


The World Health Organization provided interim guidance to laboratories and stakeholders involved in laboratory testing of patients who meet the definition of suspected case of pneumonia associated with 2019-nCoV, Meridian noted.


Now, “Meridian’s manufacturing team is working diligently to meet the supply of critical reagents for the detection of coronavirus and fast response to the outbreak,” the company stated.


Dr. Liang Zhang, general manager for Meridian in China, explained why the companies’ diagnostic test kit is in demand.


“The advantage of the Meridian Lyo-Ready 1-Step RT-qPCR Mix is that the assay can be set up and freeze-dried, so that they are highly stable, just requiring the patient sample to be added and the assay run,” Zhang said. “This means that patients can be screened very quickly to help stop the spread of this virus. We are pleased to have a reagent that works so well and makes economic sense for coronavirus diagnostics during these times of great urgency.”


Symptoms of 2019-n CoV, which may appear in two to 14 days after exposure, include fever, cough and shortness of breath, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.


Preventive measures include washing hands often with soap and water or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. Avoid touching eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands, the CDC advises.