Boarding schools with Chinese pupils urged to be alert for xenophobia 
 Boarding schools in the UK which educate thousands of children from China have been urged to be alert to “signs of xenophobia” as global concerns about the coronavirus grow.

The Boarding Schools’ Association, which represents 550 independent and state boarding schools, urged its members to support pupils from affected areas who may be worried about friends and families.

And in new guidance published on its website, it warns: “Stay alert for any signs of xenophobia by students towards one another, or by any external audiences, either in school or on social media sites.

“Such behaviour should not be tolerated and action should be taken against anyone acting in this way.”

Media coverage of the coronavirus outbreak in the UK has noted the 120,000 Chinese students currently enrolled in UK universities, but the number of Chinese pupils at private schools in the UK has also grown in recent years.

According to the latest statistics published by the Independent Schools Council (ISC), an umbrella body that includes famous public schools such as Eton and Harrow as well as hundreds of smaller prep schools, there are almost 10,000 pupils from mainland China now studying at ISC schools.

Asked about xenophobia, the BSA said there had been no reports of incidents. “We have not heard of anything happening in our schools, and we don’t envisage it happening in our schools, we are trying to make sure we are covering every eventuality.”

The latest BSA guidance also advises member schools to warn families against travelling back to China and Hong Kong in the February half-term, suggesting schools could be kept open to accommodate pupils instead.

It urges schools to draw up plans in case children need to be kept in quarantine following travel to affected areas. “This should not be seen as an over-reaction or ‘scare-mongering’,” the guidance states, “but is based on experience gained from the progress of previous such diseases.”

During the Sars outbreak of 2003, many schools were forced to quarantine pupils as they had already travelled home for Easter before the spread of the virus was identified.

The BSA said some schools had already cancelled visits from prospective parents, recruitment agents and pupils from China as a precautionary measure. “While cancellation may be unnecessary, it is obviously prudent to minimise any unnecessary risk.”

Boarding schools are also being urged to make sure that appropriate guardian arrangements are in place in case restricted travel arrangements leave pupils and parents separated.