These 13 retail stocks are the most at risk of steep losses as China's coronavirus spreads | Markets Insider 
 ReutersHistory shows that viral outbreaks can have a significant, if  short-lived, effect on sales, Credit Suisse's Michael Binetti  said in a note Monday.  
Today's retailers have e-commerce to thank for buffering the  depressed demand they will see in their brick-and-mortar  storefronts.  
Thirteen US retail firms are particularly exposed to the  fallout. We list them from least to most.   
Visit Business Insider's    homepage for more stories.

  Retailers with big businesses in China could see their sales  numbers drop this Lunar New Year as the country combats the  spread of coronavirus.

  For the most exposed companies, the cost could amount to a 3-5%  reduction in earnings per share next quarter if coronavirus  continues, Credit Suisse analyst Michael Binetti said in a Monday  research note. On top of that, there's a risk that media coverage  itself could eat into share performance, he said, adding that  price-earnings ratios, a measure of how expensive a company's  share price is relative to value, could fall by 10-15%.

  The hit to revenue comes during a week that typically would be a  boon for retailers: the Lunar New Year. Instead, this year,  coronavirus has left at least 12 cities in China under lockdown,  restricting the movement of at least 40 million people.

  Binetti based his analysis of the risk of coronavirus off of  historical data from SARS and avian flu outbreaks in 2003 and  2004-2006, respectively. 

  To be sure, today's retail companies have certain tools in their  back pocket that weren't available in previous outbreaks nearly  two decades ago, Binetti said: e-commerce makes up a bigger share  of business and should be more durable, and China and the Centers  for Disease Control and Prevention are more equipped to combat  the spread of contagious disease, he said. Plus, retailers have  bounced back from contractions quickly in the past, he  added.

  Still, previous viral outbreaks in China hampered retail, Binetti  said: "At the height of reported SARS cases, Mainland China  retail sales growth slowed to just +4%," about half the rate seen  in the preceding 12 months. The "fear factor" produced by media  coverage led to a 16% contraction to price-earnings ratios on top  of that, he added. 

  Binetti pointed to a basket of US companies that get a  significant share of their revenue from Chinese sales. Here are  the thirteen companies exposed, from least to most: 





13. Hanesbrands Inc.
Courtesy of ChampionTicker: HBI

Percent of revenue exposed: 1%
Major brands: Champion, Hanes, Maidenform,  Playtex
Source: Credit Suisse 





12. Ralph Lauren Corp
Richard Drew/APTicker: RL
Percent of revenue exposed: 1%
Major brands: Club Monaco, Ralph Lauren Jeans  Company
Source: Credit Suisse 





11. L Brands Inc.
Yelp/James MTicker: LB
Percent revenue exposed: 1%
Major brands: Victoria's Secret, PINK, Bath   Body Works 
Source: Credit Suisse 





10. Under Armour Inc.
AmazonTicker: UAA 
Percent of revenue: 2%
Major brands: Under Armour, MapMyFitness
Source: Credit Suisse 





9. Lululemon Athletica Inc.
Colin McConnell/Toronto Star via Getty ImagesTicker: LULU
Percent revenue exposed: 3%
Major brands: Lululemon
Source: Credit Suisse 





8. Gap Inc.
Bethany Biron/Business InsiderTicker: GPS
Percent revenue exposed: 3%
Major brands: Old Navy, Gap, Banana Republic,  Athleta
Source: Credit Suisse 





7. Capri Holdings Ltd.
Getty/Miguel MedinaTicker: CPRI (formerly KORS)
Percent revenue exposed: 4%
Major brands: Versace, Jimmy Choo, Michael Kors
Source: Credit Suisse 





Canada Goose Holdings Inc.
Reuters/Shannon StapletonTicker: GOOS 
Percent revenue exposed: approximately  mid-single digit 
Major brands: Canada goose 
Source: Credit Suisse 





5. VF Corporation
Christian Vierig/Getty ImagesTicker: VFC
Percent revenue exposed:  6%

Major brands: Vans, Timberland, Jansport, The  North Face 
Source: Credit Suisse 





4. PVH Corp
Flickr/Jimmy BaikoviciusTicker: PVH
Percent revenue exposed: 7%
Major brands: Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger
Source: Credit Suisse 





3. Tapestry Inc.
ReutersTicker: TPR
Percent revenue exposed: 15%
Major brands: Coach, Kate Spade, Stuart Weitzman  
Source: Credit Suisse 





1. Nike Inc. (tied for first)
ReutersTicker: NKE 
Percent revenue exposed: 17%
Major brands: Nike, Converse, Hurley
Source: Credit Suisse 





1. Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (tied for first)
Jamie W./YelpTicker: EL
Percent of revenue exposed: 17%
Major brands: MAC, Estee Lauder, Smashbox

Source: Credit Suisse