Coronavirus: Briton attacks UK government for 'abandoning' citizens stranded in China 
 China’s coronavirus epidemic has been impacting UK residents who are now stuck in the country. LBC’s Shelagh Fogarty spoke to one frustrated UK citizen who complained the UK government was not doing enough to relay information to those in China. The caller, introduced as Matthew from Bromley, explained the British government was asking for the “impossible” by insisting UK citizens leave the city of Wuhan, the epicentre of the virus outbreak.

He added this was not possible as airports, trains and roads had been closed due to the virus as part of mass quarantine measures. 
Ms Fogarty said: “So you are not getting any direct advice?
“Nobody is putting leaflets through your door or special broadcasts about things, nothing like that?”
The caller, currently stuck in Wuhan, replied: “Again, which ones do you believe and which ones do you not?
DON'T MISS: Coronavirus warning: Travellers from Wuhan to UK told to 'self-isolate

“I think there is a frustration that we are not getting so much from the UK government.
“There is no clear message from them about what we should be doing.
“Apart from the same message that they have been spouting for the last four days which is to leave the city if you can.
“Which is pretty much impossible as airports, train stations and roads are closed.”

The caller went on to say: “The UK government provided us with a number to call.
“Once you call it you get put through to a switchboard and then to a gentleman who perhaps didn’t really know so much about the situation or what is being done about it.”
The LBC host then asked whether the caller and other British people felt abandoned by the UK government.
READ MORE:
Coronavirus: China BLOCKS rescue jets for British citizens trapped  [Latest]
Coronavirus protection: How to protect yourself from deadly virus [Latest]
Coronavirus LIVE: Shanghai on lockdown as death toll reaches 81 [Live blog]

The caller Matthew answered: “It does feel a little like being abandoned.
“But mainly through lack of communication.
“It would be nice if someone was kind of relaying all of the proper information to us.
“But that has not happened so far.”