China Coronavirus Is Now Halfway To SARS 
 Virusbusters: An ambulance staff makes way towards a health check post in Wuhan in central China's ... [+] Hubei province on Sunday, January 26, 2020. China's novel coronavirus outbreak is crashing markets, especially its own. (Photo from Barcroft Media via Getty Images)
Barcroft Media via Getty ImagesIf there was ever a time to take profits on China’s runaway stock market, now is the time. China’s A-shares, the mainland equity market in Shanghai and Shenzhen, is down by more than 5% as the Wuhan coronavirus continues to claim lives. 
Based on the case load of new infected persons, the coronavirus has now infected nearly 3,000 people and growing. It was around 2,000 over the weekend. 
At this rate of around 1,000 new cases a day, the virus, which was first discovered in the central China city of Wuhan back in December, should have infected half of the 8,096 people stricken with the SARS virus out of China in 2003 by mid-week.
A reported 80 people have died due to respiratory complications caused by the pneumonia-like viral infection. 
A total of 774 people died from SARS, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). The SARS crisis began in late 2002 and wound down in July 2003, staying in the news cycle for 8 months. No one has contracted SARS since. The disease was traced to bats. The Wuhan coronavirus has also been traced to animals, including  bats, that were believed to have been consumed by people.
WHO has not issued any new statements on the outbreak, which Wuhan travelers have taken with them to Singapore, South Korea, Japan and the United States.
As Brian McCarthy of Macrolens said in a note to clients on Monday, “we can’t all become virologists overnight. But investors need to map out what we know, what we might know, and what we don’t know, in order to gain some sense of risk and reward amidst the newfound volatility.”
Coronavirus has replaced trade wars and ‘World War III’ (remember that one?) as the leading cause of market volatility. 
	China's Trade War Recovery Is Now Seriously Threatened By Coronavirus			Forbes		Kenneth Rapoza	“Fear and uncertainty could well lead to further weakness in equity markets, especially after their very strong performance in 2019.” 

Janet Mui, global economist, Cazenove CapitalThe next few days should provide critical data on how widely and broadly the virus has spread outside of Wuhan. People will just have to trust the Chinese government and media to report on this one.
The outbreak could not have come at a worse time. The Lunar New Year holiday in China is the equivalent of the American Thanksgiving holiday travel weekend.
In comparing the two viruses impact on the market, SARS had a relatively short-lived impact on stocks and on China’s economy. GDP slowed from 11% in the first quarter of 2003 to 9% in the second due to the decline in travel and consumer spending. 
When SARS was eventually contained, the pace of GDP growth quickly recovered, resulting in growth for the year of 10%. The economic impact depends on how quickly the outbreak can be contained.
Barclays Capital is forecasting around a 0.2 percentage point cut on growth in the first quarter. 
If this becomes SARS-like, or worse, The Economist Intelligence Unit’s Agathe Demarais is forecasting a half percent to one percent haircut on growth, taking China’s overall economic output to its lowest level in at least 20 years.
Air China and China Eastern Airline planes. The Luna New Year is the busiest travel season of the ... [+] year for China. Seeing how the outbreak hit just a few weeks before the holiday, expectations are for the number of cases to skyrocket this week. (AP Photo/Greg Baker, File)
ASSOCIATED PRESSOnce coronavirus cases hit the psychologically important figure of 8,000, it will be as bad as SARS just as the market is expecting. The next question will be ‘how much worse can this get?’, setting the stage for another leg down in equity markets and the rerating of global growth by the big banks. 
For now, everyone is considering this as bad as SARS, with fears that it might be worse.
If the number of cases do not slow by the time it reaches SARS proportions, then China will be the source of yet another global pandemic. 
“Fear and uncertainty could well lead to further weakness in equity markets, especially after their very strong performance in 2019,” says Janet Mui, an economist with Cazenove Capital in London. Sectors such as transportation and traditional retail would get hit hardest.
The SARS experience suggests that once the situation is contained, however, activity  bounces back sharply. China faces a relief rally. 
In the worse case scenario, the outbreak intensifies beyond that of SARS cases and death tolls and Beijing is forced to pull the trigger on more stimulus to make up for losses later in the year when — hopefully — all of this is in the rear view like the Iran World War.
“The risk of the coronavirus being worse than SARS and leading to the canceling of some Luna New Year celebrations was impossible to predict,” says Michael Reynolds, investment strategy officer at Glenmede. “We have to be careful not to go deaf from the noise this is going to cause,” he says.
Shanghai businesses will remain closed until February 9th, longer than the initially planned closing ... [+] for the Lunar New Year holiday. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg
© 2015 Bloomberg Finance LPBusinesses were set to resume normal non-holiday hours on Friday but that’s been officially pushed out to Monday, February 3.  
Shanghai took the extra precaution of keeping them closed until February 9. 
“I would anticipate a further delay,” says McCarthy, “due to the problematic nature of stuffing hundreds of millions of people into crowded train stations before the virus is fully under control.”