U.S. Coronavirus Infections Rise To 5 Cases, Stony Brook Professor Stuck In China 
 NEW YORK (CBSNewYork/AP) — The 
CDC says it is testing 110 people in 26 states for 
possible coronavirus infections.

The U.S. has five confirmed cases of the new virus from China, all among people who traveled to the city at the center of the outbreak, health officials said.

In New York, some people were seen wearing masks due to fear of the virus.

Two new cases were reported Sunday – one in Los Angeles County in California and the other in Maricopa County, Arizona. The latter case was someone with ties to Arizona State University who did not live in school housing and had a history of travel to Wuhan, China, state health officials said.

Officials with the Arizona Department of Health Services said the Maricopa County patient wasn’t severely ill and was in isolation at home to keep the illness from spreading. The department said it would not release potentially identifying information on the person, including the gender and age, and declined to say whether the person was a student or faculty member.

The LA patient alerted authorities that he wasn’t feeling well upon arriving at Los Angeles International Airport. The patient was taken by ambulance to a hospital, health officials said at a Sunday news conference.

“Everything worked as it should,” said Dr. Sharon Balter with the LA County Department of Public Health. “The patient presented for care, the patient was immediately transported to a hospital, the patient has remained in the hospital.”

WEB EXTRA: Coronavirus information from the CDC | Guidance For Travelers

Officials did not provide details about the patient, except to say that the individual was a traveler from Wuhan, China.

On Sunday, Sen. Charles Schumer the federal government should get ahead of the need to declare an official public health emergency should an infectious outbreak of coronavirus happen in the United States.

According to Schumer, a Stony Brook University professor studying the outbreak is now stuck in China due to the travel bans. The U.S. consulate in Wuhan reportedly will evacuate personnel and some private citizens on Tuesday.

(© Copyright 2020 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. The Associated Press contributed to this report.)