Trump offers 'any help' as virus spreads 
 The Chinese city of Wuhan is in virtual lockdown as authorities try to contain a virus outbreak

US President Donald Trump has offered China whatever help needed to control a coronavirus outbreak that has killed 81 people, stranded tens of millions during the biggest holiday of the year and rattled global markets.

With local authorities taking increasing flak from the public over their initial response, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang visited Wuhan city, the epicentre of the outbreak, to encourage medical workers and promise reinforcements.

Global stocks fell, oil prices hit three-month lows, and China's yuan dipped to its weakest in 2020 on Monday as investors fretted about damage to the world's second-biggest economy from travel bans and an extended Lunar New Year holiday.

"We are in very close communication with China concerning the virus," tweeted Trump, who waged a bruising 18-month trade war with Beijing until a recent truce.

"We have offered China and President Xi (Jinping) any help that is necessary. Our experts are extraordinary!"

Visiting Wuhan in a blue protective suit and mask, Li praised medics, said 2500 more workers would join them in the next two days, and visited the site of a new hospital to be built in days.

The most senior leader to visit Wuhan since the outbreak, Li was shown on state TV leading medical workers in chants of "Wuhan jiayou!" - an exhortation to keep their strength up.

On China's heavily censored social media, officials have faced mounting anger over the virus, which is thought to have come from a market where wildlife was sold illegally.

In rare public self-criticism, Wuhan Mayor Zhou Xianwang said the city's management of the crisis was "not good enough" and indicated he was willing to resign.

The central Chinese city of 11 million people is in virtual lockdown and much of the province of Hubei, home to nearly 60 million people, is under some kind of travel curb.

A few cases linked to people who travelled from Wuhan have been confirmed in a dozen countries, from Japan to the US, where authorities said they had 110 people under investigation in 26 states.

Sri Lanka was the latest to confirm a case.

Investors are worried about the impact on travel, tourism and broader economic activity.

The consensus is that in the short term, economic output will be hit as authorities limit travel and extend the week-long New Year holiday - when millions traditionally travel by rail, road and plane - by three days to limit the spread of the virus.

Asian and European shares tumbled, with Japan's Nikkei average sliding two per cent, its biggest one-day fall in five months.

Demand spiked for safe-haven assets such as the Japanese yen and Treasury notes. European stocks fell more than two per cent.

During the 2002-2003 outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which originated in China and killed nearly 800 people globally, air passenger demand in Asia plunged 45 per cent.

The travel industry is more reliant on Chinese travellers now.

Latest official figures put the total number of confirmed cases in China at 2835, about half of those in Hubei.