5 things we learned from the latest coronavirus update 
 Health officials confirmed on Monday that a Toronto man in his mid 50s has the first confirmed case of novel coronavirus in Ontario, while his wife is presumptive-confirmed pending the results of national lab tests.

The man is in Sunnybrook Hospital while his wife is in self-isolation at home. Both were on the same China Southern Airlines flight that landed at Pearson International Airport on Jan. 22.

Additionally, the province’s Associate Chief Medical Officer of Health, Dr. Barbara Yaffe, says 19 other people are under investigation and being tested for the virus in Ontario. Another 18 people tested negative for novel coronavirus.

Here’s five other things we learned during Monday’s update from health officials:

While the illness has claimed 81 lives so far in China, Ontario’s Chief Medical Officer of Health, Dr. David Williams, points out that the woman currently under self-isolation in Toronto with a presumptive case of novel coronavirus has very mild symptoms that don’t require hospitalization.

“The second case also reminds us that not all people who contract coronavirus experience severe symptoms,” he said. “As of today she has not been in need of the same acute hospital care required by her husband, who also remains stable.”

Protective masks may be flying off the shelves, but Dr. Williams doesn’t think they do much good.

“Our protocols with respiratory illness throughout the season — we have never recommended the wearing of masks in public,” he said, noting that many don’t wear them properly.

“One of the problems … is I see people wearing the mask and they’re handling stuff then they put their hand on the mask and touch their mouth … it may give that person some solace … but it’s more important that you don’t put your hands up to your face and use hand sanitizer.”

“The mask may not be cleaned on a regular basis so you could be re-circulating stuff … I understand that some groups like to do that (wear the masks). We have never recommended that in Ontario.”

If a person has come down with symptoms of a respiratory illness in tandem with a worrisome travel history, they will be sent for testing in Ontario, with results expected within 24 to 36 hours, Williams explained.

If that test is positive, the person will be considered a “presumptive” case. At that point the sample will immediately be sent to the National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg for a second round of testing. The second round of testing takes another 48 hours until the results are in.

According to Ontario’s Associate Chief Medical Officer of Health, Dr. Barbara Yaffe, the province is taking active steps to contain the virus.

“As of this morning Ontario implemented enhanced screening measures at all emergency medical services communication centres to help identify potential cases of coronavirus before dispatching paramedics,” she said.

“When you call 911, dispatch answers the phone, and if the individual has respiratory symptoms they will ask about a travel history and so if there is a concern that this person may be infected the paramedics that are sent out are aware and wear appropriate garb.”

When asked if schools should be doing anything differently now that the novel coronavirus is confirmed in Ontario, Williams said the virus isn’t widespread enough to implement anything other than common sense.

“At this stage, unlike SARS, we don’t have it widely circulating in the community,” Williams said. “At this time there’s still lots of … influenza-like illness. Our rules are still the same, if your child is ill, keep them home.”

Williams advised educators and parents to be as vigilant as they would be during any routine flu season.

“It’s business as usual,” he said.