No coronavirus in Queenstown after rumours of infected hotel guest floated 
 Jim Boult spoke to TVNZ1’s Breakfast after reports of a possible outbreak in the tourist town.

Health officials say there are no cases of coronavirus in Queenstown, despite rumours gaining traction in the South Island tourist hot spot.

It was reported a hotel guest was suspected of having a case of the deadly virus, which has infected 2800 people and killed at least 80 in China.

A Ministry of Health spokeswoman confirmed on Tuesday there were no cases of the virus in the Southern District Health Board area.

Southern DHB chief medical officer Dr Nigel Millar said the DHB was not actively investigating any suspected cases.

READ MORE:

 * Coronavirus cases highly likely to arrive in NZ, health officials say as they seek extra quarantine powers

 * Health authorities rule out coronavirus after unwell child flies into Christchurch

Queenstown's Rees Hotel posted on Facebook rumours of an outbreak of the virus at the hotel were "unfounded" and "untrue."

"There's not anyone or anything at all," he said.

"We're as in the dark about it as you are."

He had not heard from the ministry or health board.

Earlier, rumours on social media suggested a child flying into Christchurch had coronavirus but this was found to be incorrect. Canterbury medical officer of health Dr Ramon Pink said the child had a febrile illness (illness with fever) and was taken to Christchurch Hospital for assessment.

Three tourists in Rotorua have been checked for coronavirus, while hundreds of passengers have been monitored for symptoms as they arrived in New Zealand.

The outbreak is believed to have emerged late last year from illegally traded wildlife at an animal market in Wuhan, Hubei.

A small number of cases linked to people who travelled from Wuhan have been confirmed in more than 10 countries, including Australia, Thailand, France, Japan and the United States where authorities said they had 110 people under investigation in 26 states.