8 Stock Picks Getting Hit by Coronavirus Fears 
 A new coronavirus, 2019-nCoV, is starting to make its way across the world. The outbreak began at the end of 2019 in Wuhan, China; it has killed several dozen people, infected thousands more and spread to several countries, including the U.S., since then. Memories of the 2002-03 SARS and 2015 MERS outbreaks are popping back up - including on Wall Street, where several highly touted stock picks have been derailed by the health scare.

It's no small worry. The SARS outbreak not only tallied 774 deaths across more than 8,000 cases over a six-month period, but helped knock China's GDP down from 11.1% in the first quarter of 2003 to 9.1% in the second quarter. Depending on the estimate, it removed between $40 billion to $100 billion from the world's economy.

Like SARS, today's coronavirus outbreak also is happening at a troublesome time: the Chinese Lunar New Year. The heavy travel period is what helped spread SARS throughout Asia, and what could contribute to a faster spread of the coronavirus.

This health issue is weighing on America's broader stock markets, but it's particularly cutting into a few specific industries where the financial strain is already being felt. If there's any silver lining, it's that, like with SARS, this could end up being an opportunity to buy otherwise high-quality stocks at a discount for a potential snap-back.

Here, we look at eight stock picks that are being hampered by the coronavirus outbreak, but may eventually be attractive buy-the-dip prospects.

China's government, in an attempt to contain the coronavirus, has quickly ramped up a quarantine effort in 14 cities affecting 41 million people. It also has put several travel restrictions in place, including slapping a ban on international group tours. Meanwhile, other countries are trying to limit travel as well, such as Malaysia, which is temporarily halting visa issuing to Chinese citizens from Wuhan and around Hubei province.

Booking Holdings (BKNG, $1,962.96) - the parent of Booking.com and Priceline, among other travel sites - has understandably been hit hard.

Booking has made China, and its huge consumer base, a primary focus for growth. It has invested in leading Chinese travel sites including Trip.com (TCOM) and Meituan-Dianping to gain a foothold in this market. Booking doesn't break out China revenues specifically, but it has said that China is a major part of its International Other revenues, which accounted for 13% of revenues for the first nine months of 2019.

At the moment, its ties to China have weighed on the stock - BKNG is down more than 8% over the past couple weeks. But this may be a case of short-term pain, long-term gain.

A strengthening Chinese consumer is bolstering travel spending in the country, both domestically and internationally. China's Outbound Tourism Research Institute pegs 170% growth in the number of annual overseas trips by Chinese residents, from 149.7 million in 2018 to 400 million in 2030.

How deep BKNG and similar stock picks fall is difficult to determine because 2019-nCoV hasn't been contained - the longer the outbreak lasts and the wider its spreads, the worse it could get for Booking. For context, though, the New York Times says that Chinese stocks as a whole "caught up" with their international peers about six months after first reporting SARS to the World Health Organization.