Live: NSW Now: $1 million reward for information on 1995 cold case murder 
 Here's what you need to know this morning.

A $1 million reward is on offer for information about the unsolved murder of a 1995 Blacktown business owner.

The body of 52-year-old Hasan Dastan was found inside an auto wrecker in December more than two decades ago. He had suffered extensive skull and facial fractures.

Local and state police were unable to crack the case at the time, and in 2018 a strike force was assembled to revisit the murder.

The State Government is offering $1 million in return for information leading to the arrest and conviction of those responsible.

Sydneysiders say they are finding it near impossible to buy face masks, with many stores selling out after the confirmation of another case of coronavirus yesterday.

A 21-year-old female student from the University of NSW became the fourth person in Sydney to test positive after returning from China last week.

Most chemists across Sydney have sold out of respirator and surgical masks as people have sought to increase their germ-control measures.

"[Chemists in] Macquarie Park, Penrith, Parramatta, Windsor, Richmond, Top Ryde, Strathfield, Burwood, Rhodes all sold out," one Reddit user said.

A woman who spent her 20s suffering from ice addiction says she would be in jail or dead from a violent relationship if she had not sought help.

Sarah* said the birth of her daughter helped motivate her to break free of her addiction, adding "she was the one who saved my life".

Her comments come ahead of the final report from the Special Commission of Inquiry into the Drug "Ice" being delivered to the State Government today.

Fourteen months of hearings have resulted in more than 100 recommendations which are expected to focus on funding and decriminalisation.

*Not her real name

A Sydney woman has been charged with high-range drink driving twice on the same day.

Police in Redfern tested the woman just before 7:00am on Sunday, with her returning an over-the-limit result.

The 26-year-old lost her licence on the spot. Less than an hour later, police said, she was caught driving while over the legal alcohol limit again.

She will appear in court in March.

American songstress Billie Eilish has had a mega-week with a Grammys sweep including Song of the Year and a history-making Hottest #100 win — the first solo female to do so.

Social media users yesterday reacted to a resurfaced Rolling Stone interview from late last year, where Eilish reveals the sample of her hit Bad Guy: a Sydney pedestrian crossing's light.

She recorded the tone of the pedestrian crossing's light across from her Sydney hotel during a 2016 trip to Australia, and her brother Finneas, also her producer, sampled the tone.

"The hilarious part about all of this is, we just were in Australia in May [2019] and my dad goes, 'have you heard these [pedestrian crossing tones]?' and I was like, 'Yeah, it's the chorus of Bad Guy'," Finneas said.