Shares drop sharply on rising coronavirus concerns 
 The Australian share market is set to fall by well over 1 per cent at the open as global markets are shaken by the rapid spread of the coronavirus.

More than 80 people have died in China and nearly 3,000 are infected around the world.

The majority of deaths are in the Chinese province of Hubei, where the virus broke out.

The US and Australia have both confirmed five cases each.

Panic has spread further after China's health minister Ma Xiaowei said people were infectious during an incubation period when they could show no symptoms.

However, the US Centres for Disease Control said there was not "any clear evidence" that had occurred, although it was possible.

The US has raised its travel alert for China to "reconsider travel."

The rapid rise in deaths and infections over the past few days saw the Dow Jones index drop more than 500 points at one point on fears about the impact of the virus on the global economy.

The outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2003 cost the global economy $US40 billion.

The Dow finished down 1.5 per cent, or 453 points, at 28,536.

The Nasdaq lost 1.9 per cent to close at 9,139 and the S&P 500 fell 1.6 per cent to 3,244.

Travel firms, hotel companies and other stocks exposed to China led the falls on Wall Street.

American Airlines lost more than 5 per cent; casino firms took a tumble, with Wynn Resorts fallen almost 8 per cent; and cruise company Carnival lost 4.5 per cent.

Wall Street analysts also issued warnings about retailers, restaurants and hotels that get revenue from China.

Credit Suisse analyst Michael Binetti estimated Estee Lauder and Nike make 17 per cent of their revenue from mainland China each year.

"China is now a much bigger input to revenue/EPS for global brands," Mr Binetti said.

He said the impact on retailers could be worse than the SARS outbreak.

Consumer stocks such as Nike, Apple and Disney all dropped.

Citi said US hotel companies that have "significant" exposure to China include Marriott, Hilton and Hyatt Hotels.

McDonald's, Starbucks and Yum China have all shut down some of their stores in China in response to the outbreak.

The VIX index, a key measure of volatility, jumped to 18.23, up by 25 per cent.

Oil producers Chevron and BP also fell on worries about global growth because of the virus.

Brent crude lost around 3 per cent and spot gold rose to $US1,580 an ounce as investors looked for safe havens.

Chinese authorities announced the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock markets will remain closed until next Monday after they extended the Lunar New Year holiday by three days.

The Chinese currency, the yuan, also fell in offshore trade by the most since December.

Hong Kong's financial markets are due to reopen tomorrow.

Markets also slumped in Europe with the FT100 in London losing more than 2 per cent.

The Australian dollar dropped 1 per cent on the global jitters to 67.60 US cents.