Everything You Need to Know About the Wuhan Coronavirus 
 A new strain of coronavirus has the World Health Organization (WHO) and medical officials worried. It's known as 2019-nCoV, or more commonly as the Wuhan coronavirus, named after Wuhan City, China—the virus's epicenter. So far, 17 people have been killed from the virus, hundreds infected, and one case has been identified in Washington state.

Yes, this sounds bad. But before you panic, there are a couple of facts you should know. While the virus can prove deadly, it's relatively rare and there are easy prevention methods you can follow to keep your risk of contracting 2019-nCoV low.

We reached out to Vineet Menachery, assistant professor of microbiology and immunology at the University of Texas Medical Branch—Galveston, to talk about the Wuhan virus: what it is, why it's spreading, and what you can do to stay safe.

The 2019-nCoV virus actually belongs to a family of coronaviruses (CoV), which include Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV). According to the , CoVs can afflict you with something as mild as the common cold or something as deadly as SARS. The virus affecting people now is what’s called a novel coronavirus (nCoV) because it's the first time this particular strain is being seen in humans.

“Before 2002, [the coronavirus] was associated with the common cold in humans," Menachery tells Popular Mechanics. "In animals, it was associated with severe and often deadly enteric disease mostly in pigs, cats, and other mammals.”

“In 2002, the emergence of SARS-CoV changed that opinion as it caused a severe respiratory disease that spread across the world. SARS-CoV was traced backed to civet cats and raccoon dogs sold in live markets in China. The culling of these market and strict quarantine ended the outbreak,” he adds.

CoV’s are zoonotic viruses, meaning that they can be transmitted between animals and humans. In fact, MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV both reached humans by way of dromedary camels and civets, respectively.

According to the (CDC), the person-to-person contagion event could be due to “respiratory droplets” exchanged between people in close proximity, but this remains “unclear.”

"Sneezing, coughing, and other close contact likely drives infection,” Menachery says, especially if particles aerosolize during the removal of medical equipment, i.e.: intubation, extubation, during treatment. He notes that this was likely one of the contributing factors that helped the spread of the SARS virus.

Menachery also says that the spread of 2019-nCoV is possible, but does not appear to be an issue as of yet “based on the exported cases to date.” That is unless 2019-nCoV infects super spreaders.

“Super spreaders are individuals who amplify transmission...this means these people spread it to double digit people on average," Menachery says. "We do not know why super spreading occurs, but we know the virus is not specifically different from super spreaders."

On New Year’s Eve, the WHO was alerted about several people from Wuhan who were presenting with pneumonia but with no known cause. Then, between December 31, 2019, and January 3, 2020, 44 cases of people with pneumonia—again, with unknown origin or cause—were reported to the WHO. By January 11, China’s National Health Commission had shared additional details with the WHO that pinned the origin of the 2019-nCoV outbreak to a seafood market in Wuhan. Additional events include: January 12: China makes the genetic sequence of 2019-nCoV available for countries to create their own diagnostic kits. January 13: Thailand reports its first lab-confirmed case of 2019-nCoV, imported from Wuhan. January 15: Japan reports their first lab-confirmed case of 2019-nCoV, imported from Wuhan. January 20: Korea reports their first case of 2019-nCoV, imported from Wuhan. According to a from the WHO, there have been 282 confirmed cases of 2019-nCoV across four countries (China, Thailand, Japan, Korea) with 51 cases of severely ill people who are presenting with at least one of the following: dyspnea, a respiratory rate of 30+ bpm, hypoxemia, or chest x-rays showing multi-lobar or pulmonary infiltrates that are progressing rapidly (“more than 50 percent within 24-48 hours”). The first case of 2019-nCoV in the U.S. was announced on January 21, 2020, in Washington state. A man who had recently traveled through Wuhan came back to the U.S. and presented with symptoms of the new coronavirus. A specimen was taken from the patient and overnighted to the CDC where it was confirmed that the man had 2019-nCoV using a Real time Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (rRT-PCR) test. NPR reports that the man is currently quarantined at Providence Regional Medical Center and is otherwise in good health. Additionally, 12 people are in critical condition worldwide, presenting with either respiratory failure, septic shock, and/or some form of organ failure requiring ICU admission. In total, there have been at least 17 deaths caused by 2019-nCoV. The CDC reports that it has created a test to diagnose 2019-nCoV and is working with international health organizations and governments to administer the test in hopes of catching symptoms early on. “The main goal of the government will be to limit spread of the virus and find its source. In China, front line workers in the healthcare system are wearing proper protective equipment to prevent their infection," Menachery says. "Patients are being held in isolation wards to prevent spread.” The city of Wuhan has also been placed under isolation and various forms of public transportation have been brought to a halt. In an effort to stop 2019-nCoV in its tracks, China has also extended the quarantine to the cities of Huanggang and Ezhou. This unprecedented move cuts an estimated 19 million people off from the rest of the world. Airports in New York (JFK), Los Angeles (LAX), and San Francisco (SFO) have begun conducting additional screenings on people flying in from China; the CDC has stationed approximately 100 of their employees at these airports and will begin additional health screenings at Atlanta (ATL) and Chicago (ORD) airports this week. Currently, there is no cure or vaccine for 2019-nCoV. However, now that the virus has been sequenced, chances of effective treatments—including the possibility of a vaccine—are more likely. “There are no approved vaccines or therapeutics for any of the respiratory coronaviruses,” Menachery says, but adds that some studies preparing to enter the human trials phase “would likely be effective against this novel virus.” Treatment for 2019-nCoV could see doctors prescribing remdesivir—an antiviral drug—which has shown “efficacy against CoVs early after the start of infection and has had success against Ebola,” Menachery says. How Can I Protect Myself? “The public in the United States should be aware, but not yet worried,” Menachery says. He adds that most of the people at risk of developing severe 2019-nCoV complications are those who are elderly, live with chronic conditions such as diabetes, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and heart disease. Also according to the WHO, there are some simple preventive measures you can take to protect yourself from this strain: Regularly washing your hands and using alcohol-based sanitizers Covering your nose and mouth when you cough and sneeze Avoid consuming raw or undercooked animal products such as milk, meat, and eggs Avoid close contact with people exhibiting symptoms such as fevers, coughs, sneezing, and difficulty breathing If you present with any of these symptoms, visit your medical provider immediately and share your recent travel history with them Avoiding contact with live animals in areas where there have been cases of 2019-nCoV For now, it seems that this endemic is mostly restricted to Asian countries. The CDC and WHO are working around the clock to pinpoint what caused the outbreak of 2019-nCoV in the first place, contain, and eradicate it. If you present with any of the symptoms visit your healthcare provider immediately. Update: January 24, 2020 Today, the first possible case of 2019-nCoV was announced at Texas A&M University, where a student is being monitored after presenting with symptoms of the virus. In a news release, the university said that the “immediate health risk to the campus community” was “low.” A second case of coronavirus has been confirmed in the U.S., this time, in Illinois. A woman from Chicago arrived stateside on January 13 after visiting Wuhan and began presenting with symptoms shortly after her arrival. The 60-year old patient has been placed in isolation and is being monitored after tests confirmed she was carrying 2019-nCoV. France has become the first country in Europe with confirmed cases of the coronavirus; one person has contracted the virus in Bordeaux, another in Paris. Update: January 27, 2020 There are now five cases of coronavirus in the U.S. with California and Arizona being the latest states to confirm as much. There have been 81 deaths related to the disease and a rising level of concern as several possible cases are being investigated. This Device Can Send Messages Without Cell Service The Best Portable BBQ Grills for Cooking Anywhere The Best Video Game the Year You Were Born