Experts say the Wuhan coronavirus is more contagious but less deadly than SARS so far. Here's how the 2 outbreaks compare. 
 A coronavirus outbreak that originated in Wuhan, China, has killed 81 people and infected more than 2,800.The virus jumped from animals to people last month, perhaps at a Chinese wet market where live and dead animals were being sold.SARS was also a coronavirus, and that outbreak emerged in a wet market, too. It killed 774 people between 2002 and 2003.According to experts, the Wuhan coronavirus is more contagious but less deadly than SARS.Here's how the two viruses compare.Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.Eighty-one people have died from a coronavirus outbreak that started in Wuhan, China, and at least 2,800 people have been infected across 13 countries.



The virus, which is marked by fevers and pneumonialike symptoms, likely originated in a wet market in Wuhan. Coronaviruses are zoonotic diseases (meaning they can jump from animals to people), so places where shoppers, vendors, and live and dead animals are put in close proximity can be breeding grounds for disease outbreaks.The spread of this new virus has conjured a sense of déja vu for some people who remember the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak that started in November 2002. That was also a coronavirus, and it also jumped to people from animals in wet markets. SARS emerged in Guangdong and infected 8,098 people over the course of eight months, killing 774. Patients experienced fevers, headaches, and a type of deadly pneumonia that could cause respiratory failure.Experts called SARS "the first pandemic of the 21st century," since it spread across 29 countries. The disease hasn't been seen in humans since July 2003.So far, experts say, concerns that the Wuhan coronavirus is the next SARS are overblown. The two virus' symptoms and origins may be comparable, but their severity is not.



The new coronavirus appears to be less severe than the SARS, former FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb told CNBC on Friday. It might be more contagious, however, given that this outbreak is spreading faster than SARS did.Ma Xiaowei, minister of China's National Health Commission, said people can transmit the coronavirus to one another during its 14-day incubation period, the South China Morning Post reported. By comparison, SARS' average incubation period was seven days.The illness can also jump between people before patients show symptoms, which makes it challenging for authorities to control the virus' spread. "An initial first impression is that this is significantly milder than SARS. That's reassuring," Eric Toner, a senior scientist at John Hopkins University, told Business Insider. "On the other hand, it may be more transmissible than SARS, at least in the community setting."



Here are some of the crucial differences between this outbreak and the SARS one 17 years ago.