Coronavirus research suggests it did start in Wuhan food market animals 
 Chinese officials have confirmed that the deadly coronavirus outbreak started at an animal market in Wuhan.

The Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) says tests show humans caught the superbug from animals at the Huanan Seafood Wholesales Market, according to the Xinhua News Agency.

Experts previously thought the virus came from snakes at the sale, however the CDC was unable to clarify whether this was the case.

Dozens of different animals were sold at the market, including beavers, porcupines, wolf cubs and rats.

So far, more than 80 people have died in the outbreak and nearly 3,000 have been infected, although the actual figure could be as high as 100,000.

A CDC source said: "Thirty-one of the 33 positive samples were collected from the western zone of the market, where booths of wildlife trading concentrated.

"The result suggests that the novel coronavirus outbreak is highly relevant to the trading of wild animals."

Huanan Seafood Wholesales Market is notorious for its live animal trade, reports say.

James, an English teacher who lives near the market, told TIME magazine: "It was well-known for selling lots of weird, live animals.

"So nobody was surprised at all when it emerged that the virus might have come from an unusual animal.”

In China, at least 10 cities - and 33million people - have already been put in lockdown in a bid to stop the spread of the illness.

A further 15 countries have reported cases of the virus, with Canada's second patient diagnosed today.

People who have returned to the UK from coronavirus-hit Wuhan have been told to "self-isolate" for two weeks - even if they have no symptoms.

In a significant ramping up of the precautions in the UK around the virus, Health Secretary Matt Hancock warned officials could not be 100% certain that the virus is not spread by people who are not displaying symptoms.

The move means around 1,500 people who have returned from Wuhan since January 10 should isolate themselves for 14 days from the date of leaving China for the UK.

Ministers have said they are working to get Britons out of Hubei province in China, with Prime Minister Boris Johnson saying the Government is doing "everything we can".

Officials estimate that up to 200 UK citizens currently there will want to return to the UK.

If these Britons are flown home by the Foreign Office, health officials will also tell them to "self-isolate" for 14 days.

Mr Hancock told MPs in the Commons: "Coronaviruses do not usually spread if people don't have symptoms - but we cannot be 100% certain.

"From today, we are therefore asking anyone in the UK who has returned from Wuhan in the last 14 days to self-isolate.

"Stay indoors and avoid contact with other people - and to contact NHS 111.

"If you are in Northern Ireland, you should phone your GP.

"If you develop respiratory symptoms within 14 days of travel to the area, and are now in the UK, call your GP or ring 111 informing them of your symptoms and your recent travel to the city.

"Do not leave your home until you have been given advice by a clinician."