Fake health alert says to avoid areas populated with Chinese nationals 
 A fake and racist health alert has warned Australians to stay away from suburbs populated with Chinese nationals amid heightened anxiety about the deadly coronavirus.

The illegitimate media release - which bears the Queensland Health logo - claimed residents should avoid visiting Brisbane suburbs Sunnybank, Sunnybank Hill, Runcorn and Eight Mile Plains.

The 'level 3 health warning for coronavirus' also says Queenslanders should avoid 'all populated areas with Chinese nationals of a ratio of one to three non-Chinese Australians'.

Member for Stretton Duncan Pegg took to Twitter to stop the spread of the misleading health alert.

'This media release is 100 per cent FAKE!!! FAKE!!! FAKE!!!' the Labor MP said on Monday.

'I don't normally like to give any credence to people who seek to malign our community but wanted to make things clear this time.

'To get latest updates go to the Queensland Health website and Facebook page. Any questions call 13HEALTH.'

Social media users slammed the fraudster behind the fake post.

'This is truly a horrible action by whoever produced this fake notice,' one person said.

'So wrong and terribly racist,' said another.

In a Facebook update on Monday evening, Queensland Health said there were no confirmed cases of the virus in the state.

'There are currently no confirmed cases of novel coronavirus in Queensland,' the update said.

Queensland Health urged the community to visit their official website for 'accurate and current information' and 'to avoid misinformation'.

'Anyone who has developed any respiratory symptoms within 14 days of travel to China should see their GP immediately,' Queensland Health said.

'People should call ahead and advise the clinic of their symptoms so precautions can be taken.'

The virus, which experts fear will 'highly likely' continue to spread in Australia, has so far killed 80 people in China and infected more than 2,000 worldwide.

Since the outbreak at the end of December, Chinese authorities have placed 56 million people in lockdown - including more than 100 Australian children aged between six months and 16 years old.