Can face masks help prevent the spread of coronavirus? 
 The swift spread of the deadly coronavirus is creating a shortage of clinical face masks — bought with the hope that the paper-thin respiratory shield will be enough to prevent transmission of the flu-like infection.

The virus, which originated in the city of Wuhan in China’s Hubei province, has already killed 82 people and infected more than 2,800, with at least five cases identified in the US since the illness was discovered.

As a result, major cities in China and Australia have complained of a serious shortage of face masks, while some New York City stores are reporting “an uptick” in face-mask sales — possibly prompted by concerned loved ones who plan to mail them to friends and relatives in vulnerable areas. Meanwhile, online retailers such as Amazon and Target still appear to have a variety of masks available to ship within the US.

The inevitable hysteria surrounding this mysterious illness has prompted the question: Can face masks even keep us safe?

“We don’t have great evidence in their effectiveness,” Dr. Vanessa Raabe, assistant professor of pediatric infectious diseases at NYU Langone, tells The Post. She points out that most store-bought masks don’t have a “firm seal” around the nose and mouth, so “you can still potentially breathe in infectious particles around the sides of the mask.”

In a medical setting, Raabe explains masks are to help prevent individuals who are already sick from spreading their illness to others, but “it’s not a guarantee against infection.”

Since information about the coronavirus is very limited, she adds that researchers still aren’t quite sure how individuals contract the illness. “There’s some evidence of person-to-person transmission,” Raabe says, but the evidence is unclear whether the pathogen is airborne or spread through contact.

“We are assuming that it probably can be spread through the air for short distances,” she says.

For now, Raabe recommends frequent hand-washing; avoiding contact with your eyes, nose or mouth; and sneezing or coughing into a tissue or your upper arm rather than your bare hands — basically precautions we should already be taking to prevent the transmission of other viral illnesses, such as the flu, which she says “is much more of a problem in the US.”

“I would worry more about [the flu] than this new coronavirus,” she says, adding that “if you’re sick, stay at home” and try to isolate yourself from others.