China Restricts Medical Supply Donations, Despite Dire Need During Viral Outbreak 
 A Chinese visitor wears a protective mask as she was touring the grounds of the Temple of Heaven, which remained open during the Chinese New Year holiday in Beijing, China on January 27, 2020. (Kevin Frayer/Getty Images)

China Restricts Medical Supply Donations, Despite Dire Need During Viral Outbreak

Beijing has banned private charities and volunteers from entering Hubei Province, the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak, or sending materials to hospitals directly.

It is unclear why authorities made the decision.

Meanwhile, Chinese netizens complained on social media that officially-sanctioned charity organizations were complicated and slow in their processing, delaying shipments to hospitals in Hubei.

The deadly virus first broke out in Wuhan City, the capital of Hubei. As the illness spread, the city is on the brink of a public health crisis, as hospitals report being overwhelmed with sick patients, with many in dire need of medicine and supplies.

Since Jan. 22, the city has been on transportation lockdown in order to contain the virus from further spreading. 18 of 19 cities in Hubei province are now under quarantine. Travel restrictions have also delayed shipments of medical supplies.

China’s Civil Affairs Ministry published a Jan. 26 notice banning any privately-run charities or volunteers from entering Hubei province. It added that all future donations should be handed to official, state-run charities instead.

The notice explained that Hubei is currently lacking medical protective suits, surgical masks, protective goggles, disinfectant, and other equipment.

According to the announcement, donated materials cannot be delivered to hospitals directly. The official process is, all official charities report donations to the Hubei provincial and Wuhan municipal disease control groups. Then, the two agencies allocate the materials to different hospitals.

Only after receiving the instructions from authorities can charities can arrange the shipments.

In recent days, Chinese netizens who initiated and organized group donations posted on social media about their experience dealing with China’s Red Cross, which is operated by local government authorities.

These netizens said they wished to donate large shipments of N95 masks—a type of mask that can filter out at least 95 percent of airborne particles—to Wuhan hospitals. But the masks were taken away by Wuhan Red Cross staff and police officers.

On Jan. 27, the Wuhan Red Cross released a statement in response to the allegations, saying that the netizens’ posts were not true, as the Red Cross only collects the materials and then reports them to the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission, which then arranges the distribution of donated materials.

Back in 2008, when Wenchuan city of Sichuan province suffered an 8.0-magnitude earthquake, China’s Red Cross came under fire for mismanaging donation funds.

At the time, Wang Haijing, then-Party secretary general of the Red Cross, also told Chinese state-run media that his organization typically charges less than 6.5 percent of total donations as “handling fees,” but only charges 2 percent during natural disasters.

China’s Red Cross and other Chinese state-run charities received more than 65 billion yuan ($9.4 billion) donations in total for earthquake relief efforts.

But until now, Chinese charities only publicized the allocations for 15 billion yuan ($2.16 billion) of them.

On Jan. 23, eight hospitals in Wuhan posted on their official social media accounts to ask for donations. They said that they were out of critical medical supplies such as surgical gowns, medical caps, and N95 masks.

The hospitals said that they could not receive materials from government authorities in time, while all online stores have sold out of such goods.

Since then, many doctors in Wuhan cried for help on their Weibo accounts.

Doctor Hu Dianbo, who works at the Hubei Aerospace Hospital, said though his post might get deleted immediately by censors—or fearing the worst, he could face arrest—he was willing to risk it in order to get much-needed supplies.

Wuhan doctors urged people to donate directly to hospitals because donations to the city’s health commission or Red Cross take a long time to get processed.

The Epoch Times could not reach these doctors because their social media accounts were soon deleted and the hospitals where they worked refused to confirm any information.