Killer coronavirus outbreak DID start at food market selling koalas, snakes, rats and wolf cubs, tests confirm 
 THE killer coronavirus outbreak DID start at a food market in Wuhan where snakes, rats, beavers, wolf cubs and even koalas are regularly slaughtered to order.

Experts from the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said tests proved humans first caught the bug from animals sold at Huanan Seafood Market.

Officials have not yet revealed which actual creatures passed on the virus but the market is home to stalls selling a menagerie of animals destined for the dinner table.

According to a menu list seen by the Sun Online, there were 112 live animals and animal products readily available to purchase.

In a desperate attempt to contain the killer virus, the market - labelled "ground zero" by local authorities -  has since been shut down.

"Thirty-one of the 33 positive samples were collected from the western zone of the market, where booths of wildlife trading concentrated," the CDC said, reported state-owned Xinhua news agency.

"The result suggests that the novel coronavirus outbreak is highly relevant to the trading of wild animals."

Health officials in China have now temporarily barred the trading of wild animals warning those who ignored the ban would be "severely punished."

Public health experts had previously warned that China's live animal markets were the perfect breeding ground for emerging infectious diseases.

It has already been suggested snakes which had eaten infected bats are to blame for the shocking virus - which has so far claimed the lives of more than 80 people and infected nearly 3,000.

And scientists in the country revealed the deadly strain shares a common ancestor with a virus found only in fruit bats.

Since the start of the outbreak footage and images have been circulated purporting to show people eating the Chinese delicacy.

Bat soup is reported to be an unusual but popular dish particularly in crisis-hit Wuhan.

A study published in the China Science Bulletin claimed that the new coronavirus shared a strain of virus found in bats.

Previous deadly outbreaks of SARS and Ebola were also believed to have originated in the flying mammal.

Experts had thought the new virus wasn't capable of causing an epidemic as serious as those outbreaks because its genes were different.

But this research appeared to prove otherwise, while scientists scrabble to produce a vaccine - something that could take at least a year.

Scientists at Peking University also claim that the deadly virus was passed to humans from bats - via snakes, which are sold at the open-air market in Wuhan.

The researchers said that the new 2019-nCoV strain is made up of a combination of one that affects bats and another unknown coronavirus.

They believe that combined genetic material from both picked up a protein that allows viruses bind to certain host cells - including those of humans.

Earlier today experts warned coronavirus will become a worldwide pandemic if governments do not impose heavy global travel bans.

Scientists at the University of Hong Kong (HKU) have issued a warning that the spread of the deadly SARS-like virus was accelerating.

China's president Xi Jinping yesterday warned of a "grave situation" as he said the killer coronavirus was "accelerating its speed".

Thailand and Hong Kong each reported eight cases, the US, Taiwan, Australia and Macau have five each, Singapore, Japan, South Korea and Malaysia declared four, France has three, Vietnam two, and Nepal one.

Across China there have been 2,744 confirmed cases, with 1,423 cases being in Hubei.

The youngest confirmed case is a nine-year-old girl in Beijing.

There has been no reported deaths from coronavirus outside of China.