Too early to tell if coronavirus will impact harvest, Wine Marlborough says 
 About 1000 overseas workers will arrive in Marlborough for this year's grape harvest but it is too early to know if the global coronavirus outbreak could cause problems.

Wine Marlborough general manager Marcus Pickens said the virus was 'something we have to be aware of', but was not yet a concern for the industry.

Of the 1000 people expected to arrive in Marlborough in the first two weeks of March, Pickens said a small number were from China, where the virus originated.

"Asia's quite a small feeding group for the harvest, but there would be some people coming from Asia as a whole," he said.

"They would be a minority, if anything a small number."

Last year's immigration figures showed that of the 350 workers on the AIP visa or Essential Skills work visa, five were from China. Pickens said this minority - 1.4 per cent - was probably a good reflection of the proportion of harvest workers that would come from China this year.

He said Wine Marlborough would wait to get the right health advice before issuing any advice for wine workers.

"We're taking a cautious approach about advising people but we're certainly prepared to do that."

The infectious virus from a newly identified coronavirus, 2019-nCoV, first appeared last month in Wuhan, and the vast majority of mainland China's cases have been in that city.

At least 20 Chinese cities, including Wuhan, have now been closed off, but about 3000 people across the world have now been infected, including four in Australia.

As of Monday night, 81 people have died, all of them in China.

Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield said on Monday it was likely a case would come to New Zealand, but the chance of a sustained outbreak was low.

There has so far been no cases in New Zealand.

Earlier this week Stuff reported that the virus could impact New Zealand's economy and tourism industry, with the cancellation of Chinese tours to New Zealand.

On Sunday the Minister of Health David Clark announced public health staff would meet flights from China in Auckland and Christchurch airports to actively look for signs of coronavirus.

He said the Ministry's response was in line with World Health Organisation advice, and advised the risk of an outbreak in New Zealand remained low.

Nelson Marlborough Health spokeswoman Stephanie Gray said The Nelson Marlborough Public Health Service (PHS) was following the guidance of the Ministry of Health about the coronavirus outbreak.

PHS representatives were connected to the national response and planning and the PHS was sharing information with secondary, community and primary health teams.