CDC Warns Travelers To Avoid All ‘Nonessential’ Travel To China Amid Coronavirus Outbreak 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	A health worker checks the temperature of women entering the subway on January 26, 2020 in Beijing, ... [+] China.
Photo by Betsy Joles/Getty ImagesTopline: U.S. officials told travelers on Monday to avoid all nonessential travel to China, increasing the severity of its previous travel warning as the deadly coronavirus continues to spread throughout the country.
The travel warnings were issued by the Centers for Disease Control and the State Department. “Reconsider travel to China due to novel coronavirus first identified in Wuhan, China,” the State Department said. 
Chinese officials have already restricted travel in and around Wuhan, China—the epicenter of the virus—but the new travel warning encompasses the entire country.
If travel to China is necessary, the CDC said, individuals should avoid contact with sick people, animals, animal markets and products that come from animals, such as uncooked meat.
The disease has killed 82 so far and has infected at least 2,800 people in China. 
The CDC is monitoring 110 people in the U.S. for the virus, officials said Monday. There have also been confirmed cases in other countries, including Japan, Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam, Malaysia, Singapore, Australia, Canada and France.  

Key background: The outbreak began in early December 2019 in Wuhan, China, and has continued to spread. Chinese authorities warn the virus could become even more dangerous because it is contagious during its incubation period—the time between when a person is infected and when symptoms present themselves. 
News peg: Chinese officials have locked down Wuhan and several surrounding cities, blocking access to roads, public transportation and airports in an attempt quarantine the region before the disease spreads further. The unprecedented shutdown has affected more than 36 million people in China’s Hubei province
Tangent: The global economy is reeling from the effects of the virus and is making investors wary.