Brave Wuhan docs ‘on suicide mission like doomed Chenobyl rescue workers’ 
 WUHAN medical staff treating coronavirus patients are being compared to Chernobyl firefighters “on a suicide mission”.

American politician and entrepreneur Solomon Yue made the harrowing analogy in response to a video of relatives saying goodbye to recruited medical staff who are being sent to Wuhan.

US government-funded Radio Free Asia (RFA) posted the footage, which shows heartbroken relatives sobbing and hugging each other for support as their loved ones board a staff coach.

Solomon Yue tweeted in response to the video: "Like Chernobyl firefighters, some of those doctors and nurses WON'T come back to their loved ones.”

“This is a coronavirus suicide mission for many of them. God bless them."

The Chernobyl comparison has also been made in regards to the government’s handling of the epidemic – which has killed 82 people and infected at least 2,887 worldwide – with some Chinese people likening to the world's worst nuclear accident.

As first reported by Insider, Chinese film and book review website Douban documents a series of comments about the Wuhan coronavirus outbreak in a discussion group about HBO's historical period drama Chernobyl.

Several users wrote they were "[witnessing] history," drawing parallels between the Chinese local authorities' attempts to suppress information about the Wuhan outbreak to the Soviet Union's attempts to cover up the nuclear accident at the Chernobyl nuclear plant in Ukraine.

While Soviet Union officials delayed evacuation and withheld information about the nuclear radiation leaks, Wuhan residents have accused authorities of not warning the public about the potential risks of the coronavirus outbreak.

In a comment which has since been deleted, one user even referred to the outbreak as "Chernobyl 2020”.

Another user commented: "The first time I saw ["Chernobyl,"] I had to stop a few times because it was so stupid and depressing.”

"Watching it this time, my colleagues in Wuhan told me ambulances noises are nonstop, turns out we are the real Chernobyl..."

The criticism comes as the mayor of Wuhan admitted that information about the coronavirus was not released quickly enough.

Appearing on state television, he said: “We were not sufficiently in time, and we did not make good use of many helpful information.”

China's president Xi Jinping yesterday warned of a "grave situation" as he said the killer coronavirus was "accelerating its speed".

Terrified Wuhan residents have now resorted to locking themselves in their homes, fearing the threat of the deadly virus.

Videos posted to social media show the locals lined up at the windows shouting messages of solidarity.

A refrain of “Wuhan, jiayou” can be heard in one video. “Jiayou” – literally “add oil” – is a Chinese phrase that can roughly be translated to “keep going” or “hang in there” and is commonly used to emphasize perseverance and determination.

An estimated 44,000 cases of the coronavirus were suspected in Wuhan as of January 27, according to the South China Morning Post, with 81 confirmed deaths due to the virus.

Coronavirus is an airborne virus, spread in a similar way to colds and the flu. The virus attacks the respiratory system, causing lung lesions.

 Symptoms include a runny nose, headache, cough and fever, shortness of breath, chills and body aches.

 It is incredibly contagious and is spread through contact with anything the virus is on as well as infected breath, coughs or sneezes.

 Symptoms include a runny nose, headache, cough and fever, shortness of breath, chills and body aches.

 In most cases, you won't know whether you have a coronavirus or a different cold-causing virus, such as rhinovirus.

 But if a coronavirus infection spreads to the lower respiratory tract (your windpipe and your lungs), it can cause pneumonia, especially in older people, people with heart disease or people with weakened immune systems.

 There is no vaccine for coronavirus.

 In 2003 an outbreak of a similar virus, SARS, infected more than 8,000 people in 37 countries before it was brought under control, killing 800 of those worldwide.

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.