Coronavirus spreads to GERMANY as Beijing confirms first death 
 The first case of the new coronavirus has been confirmed in Germany as the Chinese capital also confirmed its first death from the disease.

China's capital today recorded its first death from a deadly coronavirus as it struggles to contain a rapidly spreading disease that has sparked global alarm.

Countries around the wold have been scrambling to evacuate their citizens from the epicentre of the epidemic.

The fatality in Beijing raises the death toll from the new virus to 82, with more than 2,700 people infected across the nation.

Cases have been identified in more than a dozen other countries, including the first confirmed patients in Canada and Sri Lanka.

The United States urged its citizens to 'reconsider' all travel to China and told them not to go to central Hubei province, where the pneumonia-like virus emerged. Mongolia closed its vast border to vehicles from China.

In a sign of mounting official concern, Premier Li Keqiang visited ground zero to oversee containment efforts in Wuhan, a city of 11 million people where the disease first appeared late last month.

The government has sealed off Wuhan and other cities in Hubei province, effectively trapping tens of millions of people including thousands of foreigners, in a bid to contain the virus as the Lunar New Year holiday unfolds.

China decided to extend the holiday, initially due to end on January 30, for three days to limit population flows and control the epidemic.

US President Donald Trump said the United States has offered Beijing 'any help that is necessary' in combatting the virus.

The health commission in the capital said a 50 year-old-man who visited Wuhan died of respiratory failure on Monday, less than three weeks after visiting the city.

More than 700 new infections were confirmed in the country, while the number of suspected cases doubled over a 24-hour period to nearly 6,000.

The youngest infected patient was a nine-month-old baby being treated in Beijing.

In Wuhan, AFP reporters saw construction workers labouring on one of two field hospitals that China is racing to complete by next week to relieve overcrowded facilities swamped with people waiting for medical attention.

On day five under quarantine, residents shouted 'Go Wuhan' from their windows, according to videos posted online, and a building lit up the night sky with the words in red.

'I'm getting more concerned every day,' Do Quang Duy, a 32-year-old Vietnamese masters student in Wuhan, told AFP.