2 people to undergo testing for possible coronavirus in Oklahoma, health officials say 
 2 people to undergo testing for possible coronavirus in Oklahoma, health officials say

Oklahoma State Department of Health officials said they are coordinating coronavirus testing for two people who meet the criteria for persons under investigation.Although health officials are coordinating testing with health care providers and federal partners for two people, they said it's important to note that a person under investigation is not a case of novel coronavirus."Even if a case of novel coronavirus in an Oklahoma resident, it is important to note the risk to the general public is low," health officials told KOCO 5. "Public health officials identify possible contacts to a person under investigation and notify them to assess their exposure risk."According to the Oklahoma State Department of Health, all confirmed U.S. cases have a history of travel to Wuhan, China, which is the epicenter of the outbreak."Although five cases have been identified to date, of 110 persons under investigation identified in 26 states, laboratory testing was negative for 32 individuals. Testing is pending for the remaining 73," state health department officials said.

Oklahoma State Department of Health officials said they are coordinating coronavirus testing for two people who meet the criteria for persons under investigation.

Although health officials are coordinating testing with health care providers and federal partners for two people, they said it's important to note that a person under investigation is not a case of novel coronavirus.

"Even if a case of novel coronavirus in an Oklahoma resident, it is important to note the risk to the general public is low," health officials told KOCO 5. "Public health officials identify possible contacts to a person under investigation and notify them to assess their exposure risk."

According to the Oklahoma State Department of Health, all confirmed U.S. cases have a history of travel to Wuhan, China, which is the epicenter of the outbreak.

"Although five cases have been identified to date, of 110 persons under investigation identified in 26 states, laboratory testing was negative for 32 individuals. Testing is pending for the remaining 73," state health department officials said.