Expanding checks for coronavirus would mean checking 23,000 passengers a day at airports 
 Tens of thousands of people fly into New Zealand a day, most of them from countries with reported coronavirus cases. If the outbreak expands globally, is it even possible to check everyone at the New Zealand's border?

On an average January day, about 23,000 people arrived in New Zealand from overseas, most through Auckland, Christchurch and Wellington airports.

Based on figures from last January, about 1400 of these visitors a day come from China, where the coronavirus has already killed 81 people and infected nearly 3000 people. During January 2019, this included 504 people visiting from the Hebei province, now the epicentre of the viral outbreak.

Add to this roughly 600 Kiwis returning home after visiting China on an average day, and there about 2000 people coming into New Zealand a day potentially exposed to the corona virus.

READ MORE:

 * Government criticised for leaving Kiwis stranded in Wuhan

 * Coronavirus cases highly likely to arrive in NZ, health officials say as they seek extra quarantine powers

 * China arrivals to be checked by health staff amid coronavirus outbreak

Public health staff are already checking these people, although they remain reliant on people self-reporting sickness (as of Tuesday morning, none have).

This could expand dramatically if the Ministry of Health expands the checks to flights from other countries that reported coronavirus case. On Monday, ministry officials said there were considering taking this step. A decision is possible today.

If they do, this would be mammoth task.

More than three in every five visitors to New Zealand now live in a country that has reported a coronavirus case, most notably Australia. It would mean checking nearly every flight and ship arriving in New Zealand.

In addition, the checks at airports have been pretty light touch to date, a fact opposition politicians have tried to use for political hay.

Essentially public health folk give passengers a pamphlet warning them about coronvirus symptoms and telling them to call healthline if get become unwell later. The system is reliant on people getting off a long flight choosing to self-report illness and then volunteer for an medical assessment. To date, none have.

But this could change.

Cabinet is likely to approve coronavirus as a "notifiable" disease on Tuesday afternoon. Among other powers, this allows public health officers to require people to undergo health check and forcibly isolated anyone suspected on an infection.

Ministry officials have not said they intend to use these powers at this stage, but they have sought them.

Coronavirus could have a while to run yet. One study estimated that, based on the rate of spread thus far,  a quarter of millions cases were likely in Wuhan alone.

A scenario in which all inbound flights into New Zealand are rigorously screened and passengers forced into quarantine would be close to unprecedented and highly disruptive.

However, even this is unlikely to catch most coronavirus cases as many people infected with the virus will show no symptoms when entering the country. This has already happened in Australia.

The Ministry of Health has already said the response in the community will likely be more important than catching infection at the border.

One New Zealand psychologist, Dr Sarb Johal, has warned against going too gung-ho on quarantining, either at the border or out in the community.

She said there were "psychosocial challenges involved in quarantine, including how many patients experienced social stigmatisation and loss of anonymity and many described the emotional strain of quarantine and isolation'.

The scale of the response in New Zealand will depend on the growing scale of infection overseas and whether it can be contained.