Morning Briefing: Top stories from on Jan 28 
 Good morning! Here are our top stories to kick-start your Tuesday, Jan 28.



 The 56-year-old woman from Wuhan, who arrived in Singapore with her family on Jan 18, is currently warded in an isolation room at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases and her condition is stable. PHOTO: LIANHE ZAOBAO 



The 56-year-old woman is currently warded in an isolation room at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases and her condition is stable.



 A staff member screens the body temperatures of arriving passengers at the Changi Airport in Singapore on Jan 22, 2020. PHOTO: CHANGI AIRPORT 



Special attention will go to passengers from China, with newly assigned healthcare teams stationed nearby as they alight from these flights.



 Minister for Trade and Industry Chan Chun Sing at a press conference by the multi-ministry task force on the Wuhan coronavirus on Jan 27, 2020. PHOTO: LIANHE ZAOBAO 



Tourism-related sectors are of immediate concern.



 (From left) Communications and Information Minister S. Iswaran, Trade and Industry Minister Chan Chun Sing, Health Minister Gan Kim Yong, National Development Minister Lawrence Wong and Education Minister Ong Ye Kung at the press conference, on Jan 27, 2020. PHOTO: LIANHE ZAOBAO 



The group was out in force on Monday to announce a slew of new measures aimed at protecting Singaporeans from the infectious new coronavirus.



 A woman puts a protective mask in a neighborhood on the outskirts of Wuhan, China, Jan 27, 2020. PHOTO: AFP 



Japanese and American nationals in Wuhan are set to be the first foreigners to leave the city since it was locked down.

ST is pitching in to help its readers distinguish between real and fake news amid a spate of online posts and social media messages alleging unverified information.

The number of infections would likely double every six days, peaking in April and May for those places currently dealing with an outbreak, said an expert.



 The Straits Times team witnesses a strange scene of men walking along drains beside an expressway slip road leading to Woodlands Road on Nov 2019. ST PHOTO: ZAIHAN MOHAMED YUSOF 



These men live in makeshift homes deep in the forested hilltops near Kranji Expressway and move around undetected via a network of drains.



 Memorial signage for former NBA star Kobe Bryant, who was killed in a helicopter crash in Calabasas, hangs near Staples Center in Los Angeles, on Jan 26, 2020. PHOTO: AFP 



Whether the pilot made the right decision will likely be at the centre of the investigation into the cause of the crash.



 SG Youth Action Plan panel co-chairs Sim Ann and Edward Chia say that besides helping to develop the mental health first-response capabilities of young people, the group will also engage employers on providing better support for those with mental health conditions in the workplace. ST PHOTO: KUA CHEE SIONG 



A group will work with schools to equip young people with the necessary skills to help their peers with mental health conditions.