Researchers from University of Washington Publish Findings in Ebola Virus (Nosocomial Transmission of Emerging Viruses via Aerosol-Generating Medical Procedures): RNA Viruses - Ebola Virus 
 2019 NOV 27 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Disease Prevention Daily -- Fresh data on Ebola virus are presented in a new report. According to news originating from the University of Washington by NewsRx editors, the research stated, “Recent nosocomial transmission events of emerging and re-emerging viruses, including Ebola virus, Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus, Nipah virus, and Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever orthonairovirus, have highlighted the risk of nosocomial transmission of emerging viruses in health-care settings.”

Funders for this research include Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

Our news correspondents obtained a quote from the research from University of Washington: “In particular, concerns and precautions have increased regarding the use of aerosol-generating medical procedures when treating patients with such viral infections. In spite of increasing associations between aerosol-generating medical procedures and the nosocomial transmission of viruses, we still have a poor understanding of the risks of specific procedures and viruses. In order to identify which aerosol-generating medical procedures and emerging viruses pose a high risk to health-care workers, we explore the mechanisms of aerosol-generating medical procedures, as well as the transmission pathways and characteristics of highly pathogenic viruses associated with nosocomial transmission.”

According to the news reporters, the research concluded: “We then propose how research, both in clinical and experimental settings, could advance current infection control guidelines.”

For more information on this research see: Nosocomial Transmission of Emerging Viruses via Aerosol-Generating Medical Procedures. Viruses, 2019,11(10):940. (Viruses - http://www.mdpi.com/journal/viruses). The publisher for Viruses is MDPI AG.

A free version of this journal article is available at https://doi.org/10.3390/v11100940.

Our news editors report that more information may be obtained by contacting Seth D. Judson, Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA. Additional authors for this research include Vincent J. Munster.


(Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world.)