Virus risk to Australians low: chief medic 
 The risk posed to Australians by a new strain of coronavirus infecting hundreds of people across the world is low, the nation's chief medical officer says.

The new strain of virus can be transmitted between humans, and the total number of cases in the world stands at 222.

"There is no need for alarm and the risk to the Australian public from this novel coronavirus remains relatively low," Brendan Murphy told reporters on Tuesday.

"Although, we do need to keep a precautionary and active surveillance of the situation."

Wuhan, the sprawling capital of central China's Hubei province, is the epicentre of the coronavirus.

There are three direct flights a week from Wuhan into Sydney.

Each of these flights will now be met by biosecurity staff from Thursday.

"No international travellers have yet been confirmed as having this coronavirus in Australia and we already have well-established existing biosecurity measures at the border," Professor Murphy said.

Information will be displayed across all other points of entry into Australia to warn people who develop symptoms to seek urgent medical attention.

Australian authorities will also work with the Chinese media to get the message across.

Professor Murphy said screening was reliant on people self reporting.

The virus' most common symptom is a high fever but Professor Murphy said measures like screening for temperatures had only been partially effective in the past.

"They missed a large number of cases," he said.

The health department was also working with the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade to consider updating advice for Australians travelling to Wuhan.

He said the current number of confirmed cases was probably an underestimate with confirmed cases in other parts of China, as well as Japan, Thailand and South Korea.

While the United States had already started screening for the virus at airports, Professor Murphy said Australia's response was proportionate.

"People get frightened and there's often media hype and that's why I think it's important to reassure the public that we are well prepared," Professor Murphy said.