Wuhan virus: China reports fourth death in pneumonia outbreak; 15 medical workers infected 
 SHANGHAI (REUTERS, BLOOMBERG) - A fourth person has died from pneumonia in the central Chinese city of Wuhan following the outbreak of a new coronavirus, health authorities said on Tuesday (Jan 21) as they confirmed that 15 healthcare workers have been diagnosed with pneumonia, confirming that there has been human-to-human transmission.

The latest victim was a 89-year-old man who developed symptoms on Jan 13 and was admitted to hospital five days later after he experienced severe breathing difficulties, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission said in a statement. He died on Jan 19.

It said the patient also had underlying health diseases such as hypertension, diabetes and coronary heart disease.

In a separate statement posted on its official Weibo account, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission said 15 medical workers in the city had been diagnosed with pneumonia with one other suspected case. Of the infected staff, one was in critical condition, it added.

The World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed that the new pathogen is being transmitted among humans, and not just from animals to humans as was originally hoped. Fifteen medical professionals have been affected, with one critically ill, according to a report from state news agency Xinhua.

That puts the virus in a category similar to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or Sars, which killed almost 800 people 17 years ago. That ailment also represented a high risk to health-care workers.

“The risk from this virus causing pandemonium has increased because it is spreading from different countries, and we are now seeing that it can be more easily transmitted from person to person,” said Sanjaya Senanayake, associate professor of medicine at the Australian National University. In comparison with Sars, he said, “the one good factor, I guess, at the moment seems to be the low mortality rate.”

Wuhan now has almost 200 confirmed cases. Infections were also reported in Beijing and the southern Chinese province of Guangdong.

Across the region, cases have been reported in South Korea, Thailand and Japan – all related to travel from Wuhan.

The number of cases in China surged over the weekend as health authorities worldwide increased testing for the virus, which includes symptoms like fever and coughing. With the Chinese New Year just days away – a holiday season during which the nation’s citizens rack up three billion trips across the country to reunite with family – the spread of the virus could intensify.

China’s health commission has decided to include the coronavirus in the Class B infectious diseases category, which includes Sars, while taking preventive steps typically used for the most-serious ailments, such as cholera and plague, according to a notice posted on the website late on Monday.

Other countries are on alert, stepping up screening of incoming travelers. International airports in New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco started screening from late Friday, joining cities in Asia that implemented surveillance measure days after the outbreak was reported on Dec 31.

“From a public health point of view, both at a national and international level, you have to assume the worst case scenario – so the Sars scenario – where you had cases going from Hong Kong to all over the world,” said Senanayake.

The WHO convened a meeting of its emergency committee for Jan. 22 in Geneva, according to an emailed statement. Members will discuss “whether the outbreak constitutes a public health emergency of international concern, and what recommendations should be made to manage it.”

The outbreak, which began in Wuhan, has spread to more Chinese cities including the capital Beijing and Shanghai, and four cases have been reported outside the country's borders, in South Korea, Thailand and Japan.

Authorities confirmed a total of 217 new cases of the virus in China as of 6pm on Monday, state television reported, 198 of which were in Wuhan.