No cases of China's coronavirus reported in New Zealand 
 A new virus emerging in countries around the world has not seen here - but no screening precautions have been put in place in airports.

The coronavirus, which was originally reported in Wuhan City in China's Hubei Province, had already been seen in countries like Thailand, Japan and South Korea.

Symptoms were similar to that of a common cold: runny nose, cough, sore throat, as well as potentially headaches and fevers.

Thermal screening had been implemented at several border control areas around the world to detect travellers with fevers, but no screening precautions had been put in place in New Zealand, the Ministry of Health confirmed.

READ MORE:

 * Human-to-human transmission confirmed in China coronavirus

 * Auckland measles outbreak: Ministry of Health 'extremely concerned' as case numbers spike

 * Third case of measles confirmed in Hawke's Bay

"The ministry is keeping a close watch on developments and has been in frequent communication with the health and border sector to give advice," the ministry's Director of Public Health, Dr Caroline McElnay said.

"As recommended by the World Health Organisation there are currently no travel or border restrictions to countries to date."

McElnay confirmed there were no direct flights between the Chinese city and New Zealand, however, there were direct flights from Beijing and Shanghai to Auckland, Christchurch, Queenstown and Wellington.

As the virus coincided with flu season in Europe, McElnay said entry screening to detect infectious diseases in incoming travellers wasn't an "effective measure".

The World Health Organisation (WHO) had issued a number of recommendations to limit the spread of the virus. This included avoiding close contact with people suffering acute respiratory infections, frequently washing hands, avoiding close contact with sick farm animals, and encouraging people with symptoms to practice "cough etiquette".

She said the ministry would continue to monitor developments relating to the spread of the disease. The WHO's Emergency Committee was convening to decide whether the outbreak should result in the declaration of a public health emergency of international concern.