Morning News Call - India, January 21 
 Jan 21 (Reuters) - To access a PDF version of this newsletter, please click
here here
    
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at:
here
    
    LIVECHAT- LIVE FROM DAVOS
    Moderated by experienced Reuters journalists, join us in the Global Markets
Forum as we bring you to the heart of the Davos debate and on-location coverage
of one of the biggest global events of the year. Fatih Birol, Executive
Director, International Energy Agency at 12.45 pm IST; Gilberto Caldart,
President, International, Mastercard at 1.30 pm IST; Benedikt Sobotka, Chief
Executive Officer, Eurasian Resources Group (ERG) at 2.15 pm IST; Riccardo Orcel
Deputy Chief Executive Officer, VTB Capital at 3.30 pm IST; Jean-Phillipe
Courtiois Executive Vice President and President, Global Sales, Marketing and
Operations, Microsoft at 5.45 pm IST; Ned Tozun Chief Executive Officer and
Founder, D. Light at 6.30 pm IST; Elie Maalouf Board member and Chief Executive
Officer – America, IHG at 7.30 pm IST; Alexandr Shevelev Chief Executive
Officer, Severstal at 8.30 pm IST; Anthony Scaramucci Founder, SkyBridge Capital
at 8.30 pm IST; Kenneth Goldman President, Hillspire at 9.30 pm IST; Anand
Mahindra Chairman, Mahindra Group at 10.20 pm IST; Bowen Zhou Vice President,
Chair of JD Technology Committee and President of JD Cloud  AI, JD.com at 11.20
pm IST. To join the conversation, click on the link: refini.tv/2P8N0Wp
    
    
    INDIA TOP NEWS
    • Ant Financial-backed Zomato buys Uber's Indian food delivery arm
Indian online food delivery startup Zomato said it bought Uber's food delivery
business in the country in an all-stock deal that gives the ride-hailing app a
10% stake in Zomato, which is backed by Alibaba's Ant Financial.
    • New Indian law to protect foreign investors to exclude tax demands
New legislation will improve protection for foreign investors in India by
offering relief from possible policy changes but will uphold the state's right
to tax them, according to its draft and government documents seen by Reuters.

    • Malaysia open to Davos talks with India amid palm oil spat 
Malaysia's trade minister is open to meeting his Indian counterpart at the World
Economic Forum gathering this week, his ministry said on Monday, after New Delhi
said no such encounter was possible amid a spat over palm oil supplies.

    • Refined palm oil cargoes stuck at Indian ports after import curbs -sources
Thousands of tonnes of refined palm oil are delayed or stuck at various Indian
ports after the world's biggest edible oil buyer placed restrictions on imports
amid a diplomatic row with key supplier Malaysia, multiple sources told Reuters.

    • Samsung says may invest $500 million to set up display factory in India
South Korean flat screen maker Samsung Display plans to set up a factory in
India with a $500 million investment as parent Samsung Electronics Co Ltd seeks
to expand smartphone production there, a regulatory filing showed.
    • India's thermal coal imports extend fall as economy slows
India's thermal coal imports have dropped for three months running, their
longest sustained fall in over two years, as an economic slowdown stifles demand
from key industrial consumers.


    
    
    GLOBAL TOP NEWS
    • China confirms person-to-person spread of new virus as fourth death
reported
The Chinese official investigating a pneumonia outbreak stemming from a new
coronavirus said the disease can spread from person to person but can be halted
with increased vigilance, as authorities confirmed a fourth death.
    • Trump lawyers call for immediate acquittal in legal, political defense 
U.S. President Donald Trump on Monday rejected the Democratic-led House of
Representatives' impeachment charges and called for their immediate dismissal by
the Republican-led Senate in a memo offering a legal and political case against
his removal.    
    • Huawei CFO's lawyer attacks U.S. extradition case in Canadian trial
A lawyer for Huawei Chief Financial Officer Meng Wanzhou argued on Monday that
"double criminality" was at the center of a trial to decide whether she can be
extradited to the United States, a case that has strained relations between
Ottawa and Beijing.

    
    
    LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
    (As reported by NewsRise)
    • SGX Nifty nearest-month futures were trading 0.4% lower at 12,218.50.
    • The Indian rupee is expected to open lower against the dollar tracking
losses in Asian equities and currencies.
    • Indian government bonds are likely to edge higher ahead of the central
bank’s so-called special open market operation due later this week. The yield on
the benchmark 6.45% bond maturing in 2029 is likely to trade in a range of
6.60%-6.65% today.
    
    
    GLOBAL MARKETS
    • Asian shares took a sudden lurch lower as mounting concerns about a new
strain of pneumonia in China sent a ripple of risk aversion through
markets.
    • The yen pulled ahead and the yuan fell against the dollar as the spread of
a pneumonia-like virus in China sparked a sudden bout of risk aversion and sent
Asian stocks skidding.
    • Oil prices rose after Libya declared force majeure on two major oilfields
following a military blockade and protests escalated in Iraq, raising supply
concerns.
    • Gold prices rose to a near two-week high as investors sought refuge in the
safe-haven metal, amid concerns of a virus outbreak in China and tensions in the
Middle East, while traders awaited a Bank of Japan policy decision.
    
    
                   CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES         DEBT
 PNDF spot         71.09/71.12  January 20       (1,420.64)       (3,115.2
                                                 crore            1) crore
 10-yr bond yield  6.63 pct     Month-to-date    8,780 crore      (11,773)
                                                                   crore
 
    (FII investment numbers are in Indian rupees. Source: National Securities
Depository Limited)
   
    
    For additional data:
    India govt bond market volumes                 
    Stock market reports                
    Non-deliverable forwards data              
    Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
    Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
    Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
    
    ($1 = 71.16 Indian rupees)
 

 (Compiled by Pooja Kesavan in Bengaluru)