What is coronavirus and how worried should we be? 
 Normal text sizeLarger text sizeVery large text size



It started in a seafood market in the sprawling Chinese city of Wuhan. A mysterious virus previously unknown to science has left four people dead and hundreds more sick since December. Cases have spread to Japan, South Korea and Thailand as Chinese authorities confirm that the illness, which causes pneumonia-like symptoms, can be passed from person to person.
China's President Xi Jinping has vowed to do everything possible to contain the outbreak. But, with hundreds of millions of people preparing to travel for the nation's biggest annual holiday, Lunar New Year, countries are scrambling to screen their borders.
On January 21, the first suspected case surfaced in Australia with news that a  man was undergoing testing for the virus in Brisbane and the World Health Organisation announced plans to convene an emergency meeting to consider how big a threat the outbreak poses.
So what is a coronavirus,  how does it spread and is this the world's next bird flu?
Travelers wear face masks in Beijing as  China reported a sharp rise in the number of people infected with coronavirus.Credit:AP
What is a coronavirus?
Coronaviruses are a broad family of viruses that cause respiratory illness. They are mostly found in animals – only six have previously been identified in humans including SARS-CoV, which led to the deadly SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) outbreak in 2003.

This new virus brings that tally to seven. Known as 2019-nCov, the strain was discovered in December, and was linked to a seafood market in the capital of central China's Hubei province, Wuhan. The market has since been closed.
What are the symptoms and how serious is it?
Symptoms of the virus range from coughing, fever and a sore throat to more serious pneumonia. At least four people diagnosed with the illness have died and many remain in a serious condition.
While Professor Booy says scientists have unlocked the genetic code of the virus in "record time", with cooperation from China, it is still unclear how rapidly the illness will spread.
Other experts also suggestion caution when assessing the danger of the virus, noting so far other known coronaviruses have a higher mortality rate.
Professor Booy says about 10 per cent of people with SARS – 800 – died and MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome) has proven even more deadly, with about 35 per cent of cases resulting in death.
The Coronavirus seen under an electron miscroscope.Credit:AFP

How is it spread?
Coronaviruses are commonly carried by bats and then passed onto humans through mammals sold at live animal markets, says Robert Booy from the National Centre for Immunisation Research and Surveillance at the University of Sydney. Animals appear the most likely cause of this outbreak, according to the WHO.
Previously, Chinese authorities had claimed this particular virus could only be passed from animal to humans. But at least two people have become infected even though they live hundreds of miles from Wuhan. Zhong Nanshan, a top Chinese expert investigating the virus, told state media they had caught the virus from family members and warned it was now certainly a "human-to-human transmission phenomenon".
Some medical workers have also tested positive for the virus, the English-language China Daily newspaper reports.
While Wuhan is believed to be the epicentre of the virus, it has spread to other Chinese cities including the capital, Beijing.
Four cases have been reported outside China so far, in Japan, Thailand and South Korea. On January 21, Queensland authorities revealed they had quarantined an Australian man for testing in Brisbane, after his recent travel to Wuhan.
The next three weeks or so will be critical to the world's understanding of the virus, says infectious disease specialist at the Australian National University Sanjaya Senanayake, but so far the outbreak has been milder and slower than when SARS exploded onto the scene.

Still, it has hit at the worst possible time for China amid Lunar New Year celebrations.
"So many people will be travelling, including here to Australia," Associate Professor Senanayake says. "I don't think we need to panic but I'm more worried now we're learning people outside the infamous seafood market, like hospital workers, have been infected too."
Some experts predict the severity of the outbreak will now depend on how many people, on average, a person with the virus can infect.
Senanayake says he expects it will play out in a similar fashion to SARS –people will catch it the way they catch a cold, from coughing, touching contaminated surfaces and not washing their hands.
"With SARS, there wasn't one group of people affected but how people reacted did depend on their health," he says. "Fortunately, in this case, more people are getting milder cases."
Is this another SARS epidemic?
On January 22, the World Health Organisation will meet to decide just that – weighing up whether or not to declare the outbreak a global health crisis.

Such declarations are typically made for severe diseases requiring co-ordinated international containment such as the ongoing Ebola outbreak in the Congo and the emergency of Zika virus in the Americas in 2016.
Chinese authorities have so far maintained the outbreak is"still preventable and controllable" but the country will ramp up monitoring over the Lunar New Year. On state media, Zhong said there was no danger of a repeat of the deadly SARS epidemic so long as precautions were taken.
Zhong Nanshan, a respiratory expert, said two people in Guangdong province in southern China caught the virus from family members.Credit:AP
So how is it being contained?
President Xi has instructed government departments to promptly release information on the virus and deepen international co-operation.
While communication was "not ideal" during the SARS crisis, Senanayake says, communication from China has been markedly better this time around. "Screening and quarantine has really improved since then," he says. "Still we [the world] are vulnerable to a superbug or virus, and even this could mutate at any time."
At least half a dozen countries in Asia have begun screening for the virus at airports, along with the US and now Australia.

On the Weibo social media platform, widely used in China, people have posted prevention advice such as wearing masks and washing hands. Some said they had cancelled their travel plans and were staying home for Lunar New Year.
Senanayake stresses masks are only effective at blocking airborne viruses for the first few hours and should be changed regularly.
He says the number of cases may well be higher than official numbers.
"Given it's winter in China and a lot of these [cases] seem milder, coughs and colds," he says.
How big is the risk to Australia?
The news of a man in Australian being tested for the virus is no surprise to experts, who say Australia's influx of travellers from China makes it vulnerable to such an outbreak.
But, fresh from a meeting with state and territory health officials, the country's chief medical officer Brendan Murphy says the risk to Australians remains low.
Precautions are being taken at Sydney airport, where three direct flights from Wuhan arrive each week. Passengers landing from the city will be met by biosecurity officers for screening; they will be asked if they are experiencing symptoms such as fever, cough, breathlessness and sore throat.
"Australia has well-established mechanisms to detect and respond to ill travellers, and processes in place to add to these if risk increases," Professor Murphy says.
At the Centre for International Security Studies, Adam Kamradt-Scott says Australia's public health system is well-placed to care for anyone infected but only international cooperation would see the virus properly contained.
“Given that there are direct flights between Sydney and Wuhan, which is currently the epicentre of the virus, there is a reasonable chance that we might see cases emerge in Australia."
With Rachel Clun, Dana McCauley and wires

Sherryn Groch is a reporter for The Canberra Times, with a special interest in education and social affairs