First man in Australia monitored for coronavirus, authorities confirm 
 Australian health authorities have confirmed a man is being tested for coronavirus in Brisbane.

The coronavirus, which was originally reported in Wuhan City in China's Hubei Province, had already spread to countries like Thailand, Japan and South Korea. Chinese authorities had confirmed four deaths from the virus there.

The man is understood to have family in the area around Wuhan and he travelled there and back to the Queensland capital recently.

"We've got one gentleman who we're following at the moment, who has travelled from the area around Wuhan and has developed a respiratory illness, but he is recovering at home," the state's Chief Health Officer, Dr Jeanette Young, said.

READ MORE:

 * No NZ airport screening for cases of China's coronavirus

 * Human-to-human transmission confirmed in China coronavirus

"So we've done some tests on him, and we're awaiting the results."

​Young said they had only done general tests for coronavirus, because they were yet to receive the updated "primers" with the details of the specific virus from the World Health Organisation.

However, she said they expected to receive them shortly and they would then be distributed to all GPs and emergency departments around the state.

"At this stage, anyone who returns from Wuhan, if they develop any respiratory conditions or anything, we're asking GPs to collect specimens and to send them to Brisbane, Young said.

"There are a lot of Chinese who do travel between Australia and China, particularly as we head into the Chinese New Year period.

"So the advice is that anyone who travels to Wuhan and comes back and is unwell, for them to go and see their GP or emergency department, and to isolate themself."

She said they were not currently screening for the disease at Brisbane International Airport, because there were no flights directly from the area around Wuhan to Brisbane.

"There are three flights a week that fly into Sydney [direct from Wuhan] and [health authorities] are looking at processes to meet those planes," she said.

Young, along with other state and territory medical officers met with the nation's chief medical officer Brendan Murphy on Monday evening to discuss the response to the disease.

At a press conference earlier on Tuesday Professor Murphy did not mention the man being monitored in Brisbane, but stressed there were no confirmed cases of the virus in Australia.

"No international travellers have yet been confirmed as having this coronavirus in Australia and we already have well-established existing biosecurity measures at the border," he said.

Four people have died in China after contracting the virus, which appears to have been spread by animals at livestock markets before jumping to humans.

There have been 222 confirmed cases of the virus so far, mostly in China but also in Japan and Thailand, since it was first detected in December.

The new disease is not influenza but is the same type of virus as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which killed nearly 800 people globally during a 2002-2003 outbreak, which also started in China.

However international health authorities are urging calm, saying with the right precautions the current outbreak will not become as deadly.