China virus outbreak: Health ministry seeks info on Indian visa applicants, measures matter of "abundant precaution" 
 India has begun preparations in the wake an outbreak of a new coronavirus in neighbouring China, where 220 cases have been reported so far and four have been confirmed dead due to the virus.

Health Ministry has sought details from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) of those who have applied for Indian visa since December 31.

"The Ministry of Health has written to MEA to provide details of travellers from Wuhan city who have sought a visa to travel to India, since December 31 and to counsel the applicants while issuing the visa. They have also been requested to provide daily details. As for E-visa issue Ministry of Home Affairs is being approached," a statement from the Health Ministry read.

Special secretary, health, on January 21 also reviewed public health measures that need to be scaled in the context of the spike in cases reported by China.

The MEA has also been requested to disseminate travel advisory to Indian Embassies in China and adjoining countries in local languages for wider circulation and passenger information, as per the statement.

The Union health secretary has also written to states and Union Territories to review their preparedness, identify gaps and strengthen core capacities in the area of surveillance, laboratory support and in particular, hospital preparedness in terms of isolation and ventilator management of patients with severe respiratory illness.

While the World Health Organisation (WHO), in its risk assessment, said that the risk for a global spread of the infection remains low, but various measures have been initiated by the Ministry as a matter of abundant precaution.

The secretary, health is constantly reviewing developments, preparedness and response measures being undertaken by the ministry, an official statement said.

The health ministry has written to the Civil Aviation Ministry for a thermal screening of passengers at the international airports in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Cochin and the airlines to follow International Civil Aviation Organisation guidelines for managing and notifying anybody reporting illness on flights originating from China.

The Airport Health Organisations at the Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata have put up signs at prominent locations informing the public about self-reporting of illness. Hospitals attached to these airports have been reviewed for provision of isolation and critical care facilities, the statement said.

The Joint Monitoring Group (JMG) under the Chairmanship of Director General of Health Services (DGHS) has met twice - on January 8 and 15 - to assess the risk and review the preparedness and response mechanisms to manage any case that might get into India.

WHO, being represented in the JMG, is providing the ministry with regular updates and technical information. A travel advisory has been put up on the ministry's website and also on the Twitter handle.

According to the statement, the National Institute of Virology, Pune, is fully geared up to test samples of novel coronavirus (nCoV). Ten other laboratories under the Indian Council of Medical Research's Viral Research and Diagnostics Laboratories network are also equipped to test samples if such a need arises.