Explainer: What is coronavirus and how worried should we be? 
 It started in a seafood market in the sprawling Chinese city of Wuhan.

A mysterious virus previously unknown to science has left four people dead and hundreds more sick since December.

Cases have spread to Japan, South Korea and Thailand as Chinese authorities confirm that the illness, which causes pneumonia-like symptoms, can be passed from person to person.

China's President Xi Jinping has vowed to do everything possible to contain the outbreak. But, with hundreds of millions of people preparing to travel for the nation's biggest annual holiday, Lunar New Year, countries are scrambling to screen their borders.

READ MORE:

 * China's new deadly virus: What you need to know

 * US to screen airline passengers from China for new illness

 * China reports 4 more cases in deadly viral pneumonia outbreak

On January 21, the first suspected case surfaced in Australia as news broke that a man was undergoing testing for the virus in Brisbane.

The World Health Organisation has now announced plans to convene an emergency meeting to consider how big a threat the outbreak poses.

So what is a coronavirus,  how does it spread and is this the world's next SARS?

Coronaviruses are a broad family of viruses that cause respiratory illness.

They are mostly found in animals – only six have previously been identified in humans including SARS-CoV, which led to the deadly SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) outbreak in 2003.

This new virus brings that tally to seven. Known as 2019-nCov, the strain was discovered in December, and was linked to a seafood market in the capital of central China's Hubei province, Wuhan. The market has since been closed.

Symptoms of the virus range from coughing, fever and a sore throat to more serious complications like pneumonia. At least four people diagnosed with the illness have died and many remain in a serious condition.

Scientists have unlocked the genetic code of the virus in "record time" - with cooperation from China - according to Robert Booy from the National Centre for Immunisation Research and Surveillance at the University of Sydney.

But it is still unclear how easily and rapidly the illness will spread.

But experts also suggest caution when assessing its danger, noting so far other known coronaviruses have a higher mortality rate.

Professor Booy says about 10 per cent of people with SARS – 800 – died and MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome) has proven even more deadly, with about 35 per cent of cases resulting in death.

Coronaviruses are commonly carried by bats and then passed onto humans through mammals sold at live animal markets, says Professor Booy. Animals appear the most likely cause of this outbreak too.

Previously, Chinese authorities had claimed it could only be passed from animal to humans. But it's been reported at least two of those infected never set foot in Wuhan during the outbreak.

Zhong Nanshan, a top Chinese expert investigating the virus, told state media they had caught the virus from family members and medical workers had also been infected.

He warned it was now certainly a "human-to-human transmission phenomenon".

While Wuhan is believed to be the epicentre of the virus, it has spread to other Chinese cities including the capital, Beijing.

Four cases have been reported outside China so far, in Japan, Thailand and South Korea.

On January 21, Queensland authorities revealed they had quarantined a man for testing in Brisbane, after his recent travel to Wuhan.

The next three weeks or so will be critical to the world's understanding of the virus, says infectious disease specialist at the Australian National University Sanjaya Senanayake, but so far the outbreak has been milder and slower than when SARS exploded onto the scene.

Still, it has hit at the worst possible time for China amid Lunar New Year celebrations.

"So many people will be travelling, including here to Australia," Associate Professor Senanayake says. "I don't think we need to panic but I'm more worried now we're learning people outside the infamous seafood market, like hospital workers, have been infected too."

Some experts predict the severity of the outbreak will now depend on how many people, on average, a person with the virus can infect. Senanayake says he expects it will play out in a similar fashion to SARS –people will catch it the way they catch a cold, from contact with infected people, animals or contaminated surfaces.

"With SARS, there wasn't one group of people affected but how people reacted did depend on their health," he says. "Fortunately, in this case, more people are getting milder cases."

On January 22, the World Health Organisation will meet to decide just that – weighing up whether or not to declare the outbreak a global health crisis.

Such declarations are typically made for severe diseases requiring a co-ordinated international response such as the ongoing Ebola outbreak in the Congo and the emergency of Zika virus in the Americas in 2016.

Chinese authorities have so far maintained the outbreak is"still preventable and controllable" but the country will ramp up monitoring over the Lunar New Year. On state media, Zhong said there was no danger of a repeat of the deadly SARS epidemic so long as precautions were taken.

President Xi has instructed his government to promptly release information on the virus and deepen international co-operation.

While communication was notoriously sparse from China during the SARS crisis, Senanayake says it has been markedly better this time around. "Screening and quarantine has really improved since then," he says.

"Still we [the world] are vulnerable to a superbug or virus, and even this could mutate at any time."

At least half a dozen countries in Asia have begun screening for the virus at airports, along with the US and now Australia.

On the Weibo social media platform, widely used in China, people have posted prevention advice such as wearing masks and washing hands. Some said they had cancelled their travel plans and were staying home for Lunar New Year.

Senanayake stresses masks are only effective at blocking airborne viruses for the first few hours and should be changed regularly.

He echoes other experts who estimate that the number of cases may well be much higher than official numbers.

"It's winter in China, a lot of these [cases] seem like coughs and colds."

The news of a man in Australia being tested for the virus is no surprise to experts, who say its steady influx of Chinese travellers make it vulnerable to such an outbreak. But, fresh from a meeting with state and territory health officials, the country's chief medical officer Brendan Murphy says the risk to Australians still remains low.

Precautions are being taken at Sydney airport, where three direct flights from Wuhan arrive each week. Passengers landing from the city will be met by biosecurity officers for screening; they will be asked if they are experiencing symptoms such as fever, cough, breathlessness and sore throat.

"Australia has well-established mechanisms to detect and respond to ill travellers, and processes in place to add to these if risk increases," Professor Murphy says.

At the Centre for International Security Studies, Adam Kamradt-Scott says Australia's public health system is well-placed to care for anyone infected but only international cooperation would see the virus properly contained.

"Given that there are direct flights between Sydney and Wuhan, which is currently the epicentre of the virus, there is a reasonable chance that we might see cases emerge in Australia."