China coronavirus ‘reaches Australia’ as man is tested for killer mystery bug amid fears of global contagion 
 A TERRIFYING new virus from China has reached Australia after a man was tested for the killer mystery bug.

The Prime Minister has just announced a travel warning after the man was isolated after returning from a family holiday.

The man, from Brisbane, had returned from a Chinese province with a respiratory illness.

Queensland Chief Health Officer Jeannette Young said the man is recovering at home but will undergo further tests for the new coronavirus, which has already proved deadly overseas.

In response, Scott Morrison said on Twitter that the government will be raising the level of travel advice for Wuhan City in China to level 2 — which means travellers should “exercise a high degree of caution”.

A Queensland Health spokesman said the man has recently returned from Central China with a respiratory illness.

“Because the man travelled to Wuhan, Coronavirus is one of the conditions he is being tested for,” he said. “The man will remain in isolation until his symptoms have resolved.

“We urge anyone who has developed any respiratory symptoms within 14 days of travel to Wuhan to see their GP immediately.”

The state’s health department hopes to have the test results within a few days, the Courier-Mail reports.

The number of cases of “2019-nCoV”, which causes a type of pneumonia, has surpassed 220 across the globe and authorities are concerned it could spread quickly.

Chief Health Officer Brendan Murphy said this morning the risk to Australia was low but said three direct flights from Wuhan to Sydney will be met by border security, biosecurity and NSW Health staff from Thursday in response to the “rapidly emerging situation”.

International airports are screening passengers for the mysterious SARS-like disease that has been confirmed as passing from human-to-human and has also jumped China’s borders.

A video has been shared widely on Twitter showing people on a domestic flight out of the central Chinese city of Wuhan having their temperature taken one-by-one by people in protective suits.

Many of the initial cases of the coronavirus were linked to a seafood market in Wuhan, which was closed as authorities investigated.

The virus has spread around China while other international cases, all involving recent travel, have been confirmed in Thailand, South Korea and Japan.

It has caused alarm because of its connection to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which killed nearly 650 people across mainland China and Hong Kong in 2002-2003.

Coronaviruses cause diseases ranging from the common cold to more severe ones such as SARS.



The Chinese government initially tried to conceal the severity of that epidemic but its cover-up was exposed by a high-ranking physician.

Initial symptoms of the novel coronavirus include fever, cough, tightness of the chest and shortness of breath, and those seriously ill developed pneumonia.

At least half a dozen Asian countries and three US airports have started screening incoming airline passengers from central China.

Chinese President Xi Jinping said it was “extremely crucial” to take every possible measure to combat the disease that has infected at least 217 people in the country.

The World Health Organisation (WHO) in Geneva will convene an “emergency committee” meeting on Wednesday to determine whether the outbreak constitutes a public health emergency of international concern, and what recommendations should be made to manage it.

Researchers had assumed that the disease jumped from animals to humans, but a recent rise in cases pointed to person-to-person transmission as well.

The head of a Chinese government expert team yesterday said human-to-human transmission has been confirmed.