China's Deadly Wuhan Virus May Spread, As Over 52 Crore Chinese Start New Year Festival Travel 
 China has been affected again with a dangerous SARS-like virus called the 'Wuhan Virus'. The novel coronavirus has already claimed four lives and is expected to claim a whole lot more as the Chinese Lunar Year approaches.
And the risk of the virus multiplying and affecting many more people increases as Chinese authorities confirm the virus is able to spread by human to human contact.

 AFP
Over 52 crore people are expected to be across China, undertaking close to 3 billion trips for the Chinese New Year celebrations beginning from January 24, that could result in the spreading of the disease at an alarming rate.

The condition follows the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus, also known as SARS-CoV that was spread across China in 2002 as well as primary detection of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) that was spotted in 2012.
The disease originated in Wuhan, however, it has already managed to affect the cities of Beijing and Shenzen. The disease has also made its way to Thailand, South Korea and Japan.
 Over the weekend, over 200 people have been diagnosed with this disease. The disease has pneumonia-like symptoms including high-fever, have difficulty breathing, among others.
The main centre for this outbreak was the local seafood market at Wuhan -- as the initial patients were mostly vendors and buyers at the market. The market was home to not just seafood but also a variety of creatures like snakes and other amphibians. The market has been shut for now, with decontamination in progress.
Airports across the globe are screening passengers who are coming from China for fever-like symptoms using IR thermometers.
 Reuters
Chinese Medical authorities have also confirmed on Monday that the disease can multiply by human to human contact. And crowded Lunar Year celebrations could only make situations worse.

While some sense of control can be administered by authorities while travelling from an aeroplane, many people are also travelling on trains, buses and cars. And even though authorities have promised to level up with the screening, it just isn't enough.
Moreover, authorities should provide guidelines for not just people in the city but also people who are entering the areas prone to Wuhan Virus and how one can seek medical help in case they feel sick.