Scott Morrison warns travellers they may be at risk of coronavirus 
 Prime Minister Scott Morrison has warned Australians travelling to China they may be at risk of a new deadly coronavirus sweeping across the country.

Mr Morrison urged travellers to 'exercise a high degree of caution' in China’s Wuhan area as the SARS-like virus continues to spread.

On Tuesday afternoon the Prime Minister said the risk was low, but later said the level had been upgraded when an Australian returned from China showing symptoms of the disease.

The virus, which has similar symptoms to pneumonia, broke out at the end of December and has so far killed four people in China.

'This afternoon I was briefed by the Chief Medical Officer Prof Brendan Murphy on the coronavirus detected in China’s Wuhan area. The CMO has advised that while the current risk level is low, precautions are being taken to protect Australians,' Mr Morrison tweeted on Tuesday afternoon.

'We will be raising the level of our travel advice for Wuhan City to level 2 - exercise a high degree of caution. I urge all Australians travelling to check the DFAT Smartraveller website for specific updates.'

Mr Morrison said measures were in place to reduce the risk of infectious people entering Australia.

The warning comes after a Brisbane man with symptoms of the virus was put into isolation after returning home from a trip to China on Tuesday.

The man is being kept at his home as he awaits test results.

The virus has been spreading rapidly since cases first appeared on December 31, 2019.

The total number of cases in the world currently stands at 222, but there are reportedly more than 1,700 suspected infections.

The disease has an incubation period of about a week, and there is currently no vaccine.

There are also fears the mysterious SARS-linked virus could hit Bali after a second case was reported in Thailand on Friday.

WHAT IS THE NEW CORONAVIRUS SPREADING FROM CHINA?  An outbreak of pneumonia-like illnesses began in Wuhan, China, at the end of 2019.  Its symptoms are typically a fever, cough and trouble breathing, but some patients have developed pneumonia, a potentially life-threatening infection that causes inflammation of the small air sacs in the lungs.  Scientists in China recognised its similarity to two viruses that turned into global killers: SARS and MERS.  SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, is caused by the SARS coronavirus, known as SARS Co, and first emerged in China in 2002.  By the end of the outbreak, the virus had spread to several other Asian countries as well as the UK and Canada, killing 774.  MERS, or Middle East Respirator Syndrome, originated in the region for which it's named, ultimately killed 787 people and belongs to the same family of coronaviruses as SARS.  The new virus wasn't a match for either of those two, but it did belong to the same coronavirus family.  Coronaviruses are a large family of pathogens, and most cause mild respiratory infections - i.e. the common cold.  But because the SARS and MERS proved deadly, the emergence of another new coronavirus has health officials on edge around the world.  Like its two dangerous cousins, the new coronavirus appears to have originated with animals - particularly seafood, chickens, bats and marmots - found at a Wuhan market that's been identified as the epicenter of the outbreak.   The symptoms of SARS, which may be similar to those of the new coronavirus, include: After these symptoms, the infection will begin to affect your lungs and airways (respiratory system), leading to additional symptoms, such as: an increasing lack of oxygen in the blood, which can be fatal in the most severe cases  So far, there isn't a treatment for the new virus or SARS, though the new virus has been sequenced, allowing for rapid diagnostics.