EasyJet Says First-Half Loss to Shrink 
 (Bloomberg) -- Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here.

EasyJet Plc, Britain’s largest low-cost airline, said its loss over the winter low season is set to shrink as the collapse of tour operator Thomas Cook Group Plc lifts sales.

The stock rose the most on the FTSE-100 Index Tuesday after EasyJet said the shortfall for the six months through March is likely to be smaller than last year’s 275 million-pound ($358 million) loss. Robust demand and lower capacity levels at competitors have aided results, the airline said.

The collapse of travel giant Thomas Cook last September accounted for almost a fifth of the 8.8% gain in revenue per seat in the December quarter, Chief Executive Officer Johan Lundgren said on a conference call. The former TUI AG manager founded a new EasyJet Holidays division in November.

EasyJet follows larger rival Ryanair Holdings Plc in issuing positive guidance after a year that’s seen European carriers buffeted by a sluggish economy, fluctuating oil prices and uncertainty around Brexit. That forced a clutch of operators into bankruptcy, with Thomas Cook the highest-profile casualty.

Shares of Luton, England-based EasyJet advanced as much as 5.2% and were trading 4.82% higher as of 8:31 a.m. in London, the best performance on Britain’s benchmark index after stocks slumped worldwide amid concerns about the economic impact of a outbreak of coronavirus in China.

Three-quarters of seats for the first half have been booked, Lundgren said, just over 1 percentage point ahead of the same time last year.

Revenue per seat is now forecast to gain by a mid to high single digit percentage in the six months through March, after the carrier previously pointed to a low to mid single digit gain.

First-quarter sales advanced 9.9% to 1.43 billion pounds as the passenger tally rose 2.8%.

To contact the reporter on this story: Charlotte Ryan in London at cryan147@bloomberg.net

To contact the editors responsible for this story: Anthony Palazzo at apalazzo@bloomberg.net, Christopher Jasper

For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com

Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source.