First suspected case of coronavirus in Australia 
 Coronavirus is feared to have spread to Australia after a man started showing SARS-like symptoms following a visit to China.

It is suspected this could be the country’s first case of the deadly virus and medical professionals are taking no risks by keeping the man in isolation at his home.

A Queensland Health spokesperson said the patient had recently returned from the city of Wuhan, central China, which is thought to be the epicentre of a new outbreak of the virus.

The outbreak is believed to have started from people who picked it up at a fresh seafood market in the city.

The news comes as a fourth person has been confirmed dead, while the virus has infected a total of 218 people across four countries, excluding Australia.

On Monday, Chinese health experts said the virus can be transmitted via human contact, meaning it could spread faster and more widely.

Two people caught the disease from family members who had just returned from Wuhan, while some medical professionals have also tested positive for the virus.

The confirmation prompted the World Health Organisation to call a crisis meeting in Geneva on Wednesday to decide whether it constitutes as an international health emergency.

Queensland’s chief medical officer, Jeannette Young, said the man was recovering at home in the northeastern city of Brisbane, where health authorities were waiting for test results to determine whether he had the virus.

It came as the country said it would introduce heightened medical screening for travellers arriving in Sydney from Wuhan starting on Thursday.

Biosecurity and health officials will meet the flights in Sydney handing out pamphlets in English and Chinese, to encourage people to identify themselves if they suspect they might have the disease or are suffering any symptoms.

There are just three direct flights each week between Wuhan and Australia, all landing in Sydney.

The screening programme may also be introduced on other flights carrying a lot of passengers from Wuhan but it still wouldn’t guarantee the virus spreading into the country.

Australia’s chief medical officer, Brendan Murphy, said: ‘Many people who have this may present as asymptomatic.

‘So it’s about identifying those with a high risk and making sure those who have a high risk know about it and know how to get medical attention.

‘There’s no way of preventing this getting into the country if this becomes bigger.’

However, Murphy said the risk to Australians was ‘relatively low’ and there was no need for alarm.