Coronavirus: China BANS tourists from leaving city as state fails to contain deadly spread 
 BBC China Correspondent Stephen McDonell said: “China state media are reporting that all tour groups have been banned from departing Wuhan, the city at the heart of the coronavirus emergency. In addition cars driving out of Wuhan are facing random screening checks to try and identify if more people have picked up the virus.” Mr McDonell also updated on the spread of the deadly virus to the Philippines, he said: “The latest update on the spread of the disease, now in the Philippines reports of a Coronavirus infection.

“The five year old had been in Wuhan, the Chinese city at the heart of the outbreak.
Philippines department of health secretary Francisco Duque III has confirmed that a five year-old child from Wuhan City has been admitted to a hospital in the Cebu City in the Philippines after testing positive for infection by the new coronavirus strain.
There are now more than 200 cases of the virus, mostly in Wuhan, though the respiratory illness has also been detected in the Chinese cities of Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen.
Now, the Philippines is the latest country to report a case, following other reports in Japan, Thailand and South Korea.

  
Xi Jinping President of China (Image: GETTY)
The new strain of coronavirus, which causes a type of pneumonia, can pass from person to person, China confirmed.
Respiratory expert Zhong Nanshan, who heads the health commission team investigating the virus, said 14 medical workers had caught it while treating patients, state media reported.
The sharp rise comes as millions of Chinese prepare to travel for the Lunar New Year holidays.
Although the outbreak is believed to have originated from a market, officials and scientists are yet to determine exactly how it has been spreading.
READ MORE: US begins screening travellers after second coronavirus death

  
The wuhan fish market (Image: GETTY)
The outbreak has revived memories of the Sars virus, also a coronavirus, that killed 774 people in the early 2000s across dozens of countries, mostly in Asia.
Analysis of the genetic code of the new virus shows it is more closely related to Sars than any other human coronavirus.
Authorities in Wuhan, a central Chinese city of 11 million that has been at the heart of the outbreak, on Monday said 136 new cases had been confirmed over the weekend, with a third person dying of the virus.
There had previously been only 62 confirmed cases in the city.
DON’T MISS
How many people have REALLY been infected by the China virus? [ANALYSIS]
China's rapidly spreading virus is 'really concerning' [INTERVIEW]
China virus claims lives as China struggles to contain outbreak [INSIGHT]

  
Medical officers transporting a coronavirus victim (Image: GETTY)
As of late Sunday, officials said 170 people in Wuhan were still being treated in hospital, including nine in critical condition.
Beijing also confirmed its first cases, with five people infected.
Shanghai confirmed its first case on Monday, a 56-year-old woman who came from Wuhan.
In the city of Shenzhen, a major tech hub close to Hong Kong, officials said a 66-year-old man showed symptoms of the virus following a trip to visit relatives in Wuhan.

  
Xi Jinping President of China (Image: GETTY)
  
Medical officers transporting a coronavirus victim (Image: GETTY)
State media reported 14 other cases in Guangdong province.
Four cases have been confirmed abroad, two in Thailand, one in Japan and one in South Korea, all of them involving people who are either from Wuhan or have visited the city.
In South Korea, the Korea Centres for Disease Control and Prevention said a 35-year-old Chinese woman was suffering from a fever and respiratory problems after travelling there from Wuhan.
She was put into isolation and treated at a local hospital.

  
Travels during Chinese New Year (Image: GETTY)
An animal source seems to be the most likely primary source of this novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak, with some limited human-to-human transmission occurring between close contacts.
The World Health Organisation said it was currently not recommending restrictions on travel or trade, but was providing guidance to countries preparing for any outbreak.
Airports in Singapore, Hong Kong and the Japanese capital Tokyo have been screening air passengers from Wuhan, and US authorities last week announced similar measures at three major airports in San Francisco, Los Angeles and New York.
How China is responding to the outbreak is under close scrutiny, given that it was widely criticised for initially covering up the Sars crisis in late 2002 and early 2003.
On Monday, Chinese President Xi Jinping for the first time publicly addressed the outbreak, saying that the virus must be “resolutely contained”.
The foreign ministry, meanwhile, said China was providing “timely information about the disease” and would “work with all parties to deal with the virus”.