Where is the Coronavirus outbreak and are Thailand and Australia safe to visit? 
 Health bodies across Asia and Australasia have been placed on high alert after the first case of human-to-human Coronavirus was confirmed.

The virus, which was first discovered in the Chinese city of Wuhan, has sparked fears of a major outbreak, with more than 200 people reported to have been infected so far.

There have also been reports of cases in other countries – but just where is the virus and is it safe to travel to those countries affected?

The Coronavirus outbreak began in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in December – and has been linked to a seafood market there.

So far it has been reported to have caused six fatalities, all of which have been in Wuhan – while 218 others are reported to have been infected.

Cases have also been reported in Beijing, Shanghai and the southern Guangdong province, with all of them in people who are believed to have visited Wuhan.

Five cases have been reported in Beijing, one case in Shanghai, one in Shenzhen and 14 in Guangdong.

The virus has also crossed over to neighbouring countries, with one case in Japan, one in South Korea and two cases reported in Thailand.

Australian health officials have also reported a potential case in Brisbane, in a man who returned from a trip to Wuhan, and who is now being kept in isolation at home while awaiting test results.

Concern has been raised that the spread of the virus could intensify in the midst of the Chinese New Year travel rush.

At the present time the government has not issued any travel warnings against visiting China, Japan, South Korea, Thailand or Australia.

If you are concerned, however, then it’s always a good idea to keep an eye on any updates to their advice if you’re planning to travel to any of the above countries – you can find the website here.

Thai authorities have said they plan to introduce mandatory thermal scans of passengers arriving from high-risk areas of China at airports in Bangkok, Chiang Mai, Phuket and Krabi.

Australia will also begin screening passengers on high-risk flights from China, although authorities have said the risk to the general public is low.

It’s been reported that at least three US airports will begin screening passengers on high-risk flights, while Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong and Vietnam have all introduced stricter screening measures.

Early symptoms of the virus include a fever, a dry cough, a sore throat and shortness of breath.

Scans on some patients have shown fluid in the lungs consistent with viral pneumonia.

The World Health Organisation has recommended that anyone suffering symptoms of a respiratory illness seek medical advice and share their travel history with their care provider.

The virus is more likely to progress into a severe illness among the very young, elderly patients or those with weakened immune systems.

There is currently no vaccine available for the virus, and as it is a viral condition it will also not respond to antibiotics.

MORE: Fears Chinese New Year 2020 could intensify spread of coronavirus