Swarms of Wuhan residents hit the road ahead of Chinese New Year 
 Millions of residents in a major Chinese city where a deadly SARS-like virus emerged last month have hit the road days before the Lunar New Year to reunite with their families or go on holidays.

Locals have made more than four million trips by train, road and air since January 10 in the annual travel rush for the most important holiday in the country, which will fall on Saturday.

The transport peak season will last until February 18 and see three billion trips made within China, according to official statistics.

Experts from the country's National Health Commission have urged Wuhan's 11 million residents not to leave the city and other Chinese people not to head to the busy provincial capital of Hubei after finding 'affirmative' evidence that the fatal virus could spread between humans.

China's state broadcaster CCTV reported today that Wuhan's government had ordered all tour groups to stop travelling out of the city and were stopping private cars to check if any live animals or wildlife were on board.

A local official later denied the reported travelling ban, adding that the authorities were still discussing a plan.

The outbreak of the new coronavirus in China has killed six people and infected 291 people.

Australia and the Philippines have also reported suspected cases of the life-threatening virus - believed to have originated in Wuhan's largest seafood market, which has been shut since January 1.

The World Health Organization has announced it will hold an emergency meeting later this week to discuss the outbreak, which has already spread to three countries.

Chinese officials yesterday confirmed the never-before-seen coronavirus has spread between humans, with two patients catching it from family members.

Fifteen healthcare workers have caught the respiratory virus while treating patients. Cases have soared six-fold in the space of a few days.

As the Lunar New Year travel rush hits its busiest day this week, the authorities of Wuhan have tightened health screening on travellers in all major transport hubs.

In Wuhan Train Station, one of the city's three railway stations, ultra-red thermometers have been installed to record the body temperatures of hordes of passengers, reported state media China Central Television Station.

Those whose body temperatures exceed 37.3 degrees Celsius will be stopped immediately, according to the report.

Wuhan is also home to one of the largest airport in central China. The Wuhan Tianhe International Airport handled more than 27 million passengers last year.

According to Xinhua News Agency, the hub is expected to welcome more than 3.5 million passengers and see 24,600 flights taking off and landing during the Lunar New Year travel rush.

Zeng Guang, an expert from National Health Commission, urged residents in Wuhan not to leave the city and other Chinese people not to go there at present.

'We hope... now if you can, don't go to Wuhan; and for Wuhan people, if possible don't leave the city. This is what we can contribute [to the situation], not an official order. [It] is the advice given by us, the expert team,' Zeng was quoted saying during a press conference yesterday.

Chinese travel booking platforms from Trip.com to Alibaba Group's Fliggy said today that they would offer free cancellations on bookings made for Wuhan amid mounting fears over a viral outbreak in the central Chinese city.

The companies, which also include Meituan Dianping and Qunar.com, said in separate but similar statements that the policy would be extended to users who had been put under quarantined or diagnosed with the new coronavirus.

The outbreak is believed to have started late last month among people connected to a seafood market in Wuhan, where all four fatalities have happened.

State media did not provide any details on the latest victim, nor was it clear if the latest death was a new case or one already diagnosed.

Australian officials today announced a traveller had been placed in quarantine with symptoms of the virus after returning home from a trip to China.

The man is being kept at his home in Brisbane as he awaits test results for the virus. Earlier tests were inconclusive, Queensland health chiefs said.

The suspected case prompted Prime Minister Scott Morrison to warn Australians travelling to China to 'exercise a high degree of caution' in China's Wuhan area.