Medics in Hazmat suits screen plane passengers for killer mystery coronavirus 
 Footage of people in Hazmat suits seemingly scanning Chinese passengers for symptoms of a mysterious virus has raised fears that the disease could soon spread across the world.

Since the unnamed coronavirus was first reported this year in Wuhan city it has claimed the lives of three people.

At least a further 300 have been infected.

A video clip believed to have been filmed on an China Airlines flight from Wuhan to Macau shows people presumed to be medics moving form passenger to passenger.

They are wearing plastic guards over their faces and breathing masks over their mouths.

The passenger who took the clip said it was filmed on January 12 on Air China flight CA119.

Checking all the passengers took ten minutes and none were found to be infected.

All air travellers leaving Wuhan will need to have their body temperatures taken on the plane to ensure the virus does not leave the city, health officials in Macau told Beijing News.

In China's Henan province the sale of all live poultry in markets has been banned to stop the spread of the virus.

The flu-like condition is similar to the SARS virus that killed 774 people in the early 2000s across dozens of countries, mostly in Asia.

Experts believe at least 2,000 people may have been infected, but say UK airport checks would only detect those who have started to show symptoms.

It is thought to be spread when an infected person coughs or sneezes.

Dr Nathalie MacDermott, leading expert from King’s College London, said: “There is potential for exposure given the volume and frequency of international air travel and the potential for someone travelling from an affected region arriving in the UK prior to them developing symptoms.

“This is where appropriate screening measures need to be in place for travellers from affected regions who become unwell with fever and respiratory symptoms.

“Largely it would be something for a healthcare worker to consider if they had someone with respiratory symptoms who had history of contact with a confirmed case or travel to an affected region.

“Airport screening can be limited in its efficacy as it screens for fever in people with a travel history to an affected area and is dependent on travellers having symptoms at the time they pass through the airport.”