Coronavirus conspiracy accuses ‘Big Pharma’ of starting killer bug crisis as share prices soar and face masks sell out 
 CONSPIRACY theorists fear Chinese drug makers may be behind the shocking coronavirus outbreak - after shares in pharmaceutical giants rocketed today.

The unfounded claims comes after it was revealed there are now 291 confirmed victims - six dead - including more than 270 in and around Wuhan.

Following the news, stocks in several pharmaceutical giants on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges soared by their maximum 10 per cent daily limit.

Jiangsu Sihuan Bioengineering, Shandong Lukang Pharmaceutical, and Hengrui Medicine were among the drug makers that hit the maximum rise today.

Meanwhile, face mask manufacturers Tianjin Teda and Shanghai Dragon have also seen huge share price surges of 10 per cent after their products sold out.

Today's gains also follow sharp  rises in Chinese pharmaceutical companies' shares on Monday.

Now Big Pharma theorists are bizarrely pointing the finger at the medical giants for causing the outbreak in the first place.

Omar Kajjaj tweeted: "Am I a nutball for thinking this could a "big pharma" tactic to make money #coronavirus ."

While Traitors One added: "Is it in the financial interest of any business/government...lets say Big Pharma for example, to create viruses/diseases or amplify existing ones? Just curious."

Flatcurrency wrote: "Is big pharma producing viruses just to sell their solution for profit?"

Images of long lines of people queuing to buy face masks were circulating widely on Chinese social media, where the outbreak was one of the top trending topics in the country.

Some online vendors were even limiting sales of masks and hand sanitisers as demand surged massively.

Shanghai's market regulator has now warned it will punish those who hoard masks and other products used for preventing the spread of diseases.

China's top leaders today warned lower-level officials not to cover up the spread of a new coronavirus that has now infected nearly 300 people.

Anyone who concealed new cases would "be nailed on the pillar of shame for eternity", the political body responsible for law and order said.

The warning came as state media said six people had now died from the virus, which causes a type of pneumonia.