What We Know So Far About The New Deadly Coronavirus 
 With the World Health Organisation (WHO) calling for an emergency meeting on Wednesday that will focus on the new coronavirus outbreak, here’s a look at what is known about the deadly disease.

The death toll from the new type of coronavirus in China has reached six, and 227 people are still in hospitals under the supervision of doctors, Zhou Xianwang, the mayor of the city of Wuhan, from which the virus is stemming, stated on Tuesday.

He added that at present, 227 people remained under the supervision of doctors in hospitals, of which 51 patients were in serious condition, including 12` critical.

The new coronavirus outbreak is already spreading to other Chinese cities, with 15 cases registered in southern province of Guangdong, five in the capital Beijing, two in Shanghai, and two in Tianjin City. Also, there are reported cases in Japan, Thailand and South Korea.

On Tuesday, WHO spokesman Tarik Jasarevic warned the coronavirus will most likely spread further.

China’s President Xi Jinping for the first time publicly addressed the outbreak on Monday, when he stressed that the virus should be "resolutely contained".

Coronaviruses are a broad family of viruses that includes those capable to cause a spate of diseases, from the common cold to severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and the inflammatory process of digestive tract.

These spherical microbes contain a single-stranded RNA molecule (ribonucleic acid). They consist of a shell with rare spikes or villi, resembling a crown when the sun is eclipsed.

Penetrating into a cell, coronaviruses multiply in the cytoplasm (semi-liquid contents of the cell). They settle on immunocompetent cells, using them as sort of a transportation vehicle to spread across a human system. Coronaviruses suppress the immune system which ceases to detect an infection and fight it. These viruses are unstable to external factors and can be destroyed at a temperature of 56 degrees Celsius.

Already labelled 2019-nCoV, it is thought to be a new strain of coronavirus that has not previously been identified in humans.

The virus belongs to the same family of coronaviruses that caused SARS, which killed nearly 800 people globally during the 2002/03 outbreak.

In late December 2019, Chinese authorities reported an outbreak of pneumonia of unknown origin in the city of Wuhan. The first cases were related to the seafood market and experts then suggested that the patients could suffer from a new type of coronavirus.

The symptoms include those pertaining to a respiratory infection, such as fever, cough, as well as shortness of breath and breathing difficulties.

People are advised to shun "unprotected" contact with live animals, cook meat and eggs thoroughly, and avoid close contact with those who have cold or flu-like symptoms.

Additionally, doctors say it’s necessary to wash hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds as well as avoid touching eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands.