Australian And U.S. Airports To Screen Passengers As China Confirms 6 Coronavirus Deaths 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	International airports have taken precautions ahead of increased cross-border travel for Chinese new ... [+] year this weekend
ASSOCIATED PRESSTopline: Six people have now died from the rapidly spreading coronavirus outbreak in China, with international airports taking precautionary measures amid fears that upcoming the Lunar new year holiday could fuel the spread of the SARS-like virus.
Chinese health officials say 291 people have been infected, while Wuhan mayor Zhou Xianwang told state TV of six deaths,  Reuters reported. 
Fifteen medical professionals have been infected by the virus while on Monday, officials confirmed that the virus can spread between humans. 
The outbreak began in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, which has recorded 258 cases, with new cases reported in several other major cities.
Taiwan said one Taiwanese woman who had visited Wuhan was infected, and the territory set up a response centre fitted with more than 1,000 beds and isolation units, to prepare for the worst, Reuters reported.
Internationally, Japan, South Korea and the Philippines, and Thailand have all reported cases of the virus, while a man in Brisbane, Australia was held in isolation after returning from Wuhan, but has since been released.
Australia, Italy and the U.S. have ordered the screening of all passengers arriving on flights from Wuhan, while airport officials in Singapore have said they will quarantine those with pneumonia who have travelled to Wuhan within two weeks before symptoms were detected.
Asian markets fell sharply over fears that the outbreak could hit tourism, retail and travel, while London’s FTSE 100 dropped 1%, as did the CAC 40 in France.
It is not known what originally caused the SARS-like respiratory virus, although it is suspected to have originated in a Wuhan seafood market. Symptoms include difficulty breathing, fever and in severe cases can cause pneumonia, kidney failure and death.

Key background: The latest outbreak began in late December 2019 and initially sparked fears of a similar outbreak to the 2002-2003 SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) epidemic. Nearly 800 people died and 8,000 people were infected during that outbreak of the coronavirus, mostly throughout parts of Asia, Canada and the U.S. Coronaviruses are a broad family of viruses that include the common cold and deadly diseases such as SARS and MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome) according to the WHO.
What to watch for: The World Health Organization will hold a meeting on Wednesday to determine whether to declare an international public health emergency, and whether to advise travel restrictions. Tens of millions of people will travel in China, and internationally, starting from this week to spend the Lunar new year holidays with families.