Global Stock Markets Fall Amid Growing Fears Over Deadly China Virus 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	International airline stocks, in particular, were hit hard by the news.
Nicolas Asfouri/AFP via Getty ImagesTopline: Global stocks were down on Tuesday, with Asian markets posting the biggest drops, amid mounting concern over the rapid spread of a deadly virus in China—especially as hundreds of millions of people prepare to travel across Asia to celebrate Chinese New Year this weekend.
China’s National Health Commission on Monday confirmed cases of the SARS-like coronavirus spreading between humans, which has already killed four people and infected 224, according to the Financial Times.
The Shanghai Composite index fell 1.4%, its biggest drop in more than two months, while Japan’s Nikkei 225 benchmark lost 0.9% and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index fell 2.8%—its biggest decline in over five months.
Moody’s also downgraded Hong Kong’s credit rating on Monday, blaming the government’s failure to contain seven months of anti government protests that have crippled the city’s tourism industry and retail sector, driving it into recession.
Asian currencies also fell against the U.S. dollar on fears that tourism and Asian economies will be adversely impacted by a widespread outbreak of the SARS-like virus: The Chinese yuan lost 0.6% and the South Korean won slid 0.7% against the dollar.
U.S. stock futures were lower ahead of Tuesday’s market open: The Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 0.20% in pre-market trading, while the SP 500 and Nasdaq Composite were down by 0.30% and 0.35%, respectively.
Stocks in Europe fell on the news, as well: The Stoxx Europe 600 dropped 0.4%, while London’s FTSE 100 was down by 0.8%, Frankfurt’s DAX by 0.1% and France’s CAC 40 by 0.7%.

What to watch for: Travel, retail and luxury goods stocks all plunged on concerns that the wider spread of the disease would hurt consumer demand. Pharmaceutical stocks in China surged by their 10% daily limit, while shares of medical gear makers like facemasks also sharply rose. Airline stocks, both in the U.S. and China, also slumped on the virus news, anticipating its impact on travel plans: Air China and China Eastern both fell by around 3%. Most U.S. airline stocks also traded lower pre-market on Tuesday—United Airlines and Delta shares were both down nearly 2%, while American Airlines fell 2.3%.
Key background: The first case of the pneumonia-like coronavirus was reported in Wuhan, China on December 31, 2019. It was thought to be contracted from exposure to animals at a seafood and meat market in the city. The newly identified virus has spread between humans, with the number of confirmed cases tripling on Monday, Chinese health officials confirmed. Cases are now being reported in other cities like Beijing and Shanghai, as well as in other countries like South Korea and Japan. That’s raised substantial concern that the disease could spread even faster around the annual Chinese Lunar New Year holiday, when millions of people will be traveling across the region. Coronavirus belongs to the same group of viruses as the common cold, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS). A previous 2003 SARS outbreak in southern China killed nearly 800 people while infecting 8,000 more, causing widespread panic before being contained.