The last time China was hit by a deadly illness like the Wuhan virus, it covered it up and 774 people died. There are fears it could happen again. 
 A mysterious new virus is sweeping through parts of Asia, infecting more than 200 people since it was first detected in Wuhan, China, in December.

The new illness is believed to have originated from a seafood market in Wuhan, a densely populated central Chinese city home to about 11 million people. It has been dubbed the Wuhan virus, or the 2019-nCoV, and is considered to a coronavirus, which causes cold-like symptoms and is considered "zoonotic" and can be transmitted between animals and humans.

According to the World Health Organization, signs of coronavirus infection include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, and breathing difficulties. In more severe cases, the infection can cause pneumonia, kidney failure, and even death.

The virus is considered to be a "novel coronavirus" because it is a new strain that had not previously been identified in humans. There are no vaccinations for the disease, though the WHO has published interim guidelines for ways countries can prepare for this virus, including monitoring sick people, treating and quarantining patients, and communicating with the public about the spread of infection.

As of Tuesday, at least four people in Wuhan had died from the virus, according to local authorities. The virus has also spread to other Chinese cities, including Beijing and Shenzhen, as well as to South Korea, Thailand, and Japan. Several unconfirmed cases have also been reported in the UK and Australia.

Authorities by late Monday had confirmed 217 cases of infection in China, according to Reuters. Of that number, 198 people were infected in Wuhan alone, which was triple the number of cases disclosed the previous day by Chinese authorities. On Tuesday, Wuhan health authorities said dozens of patients remained in hospitals with the virus, some critically ill and all under quarantine.

But China's handling of 2003's SARS epidemic has sparked concerns among observers of another pandemic and state-sanctioned cover-up.

Fears of another global outbreak stem from China's handling of the deadly SARS virus in the early 2000s.

Experts have noted similarities between the Wuhan virus and the virus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome, which reached epidemic proportions from November 2002 to July 2003. The epidemic consisted of 8,098 cases of the disease and 774 deaths across at least 30 countries.

The outbreak of the illness was traced to China's southeastern Guangdong province and was genetically traced to have spread through bats.

During the initial stages of the outbreak, the Chinese government concealed information from the public, limiting mitigation efforts and exacerbating the spread of disease. The country also had no government agencies in place at the time to deal with a public-health emergency.

The government did not inform the WHO of the outbreak until February 2003, allowing the disease to flourish.

According to The Sydney Morning Herald, doctors in Beijing were ordered by authorities to hide SARS patients from WHO officials during inspections.

The tight-lipped response from the Chinese government on the disease had both political and economic motivations, meant to reduce public panic and keep the status quo within the country. Taiwanese legislators even accused China of unleashing the virus as part of a biological warfare campaign, though no conclusive evidence has been found, according to Reuters.