Coronavirus: As illness spreads, anxiety rises in China and overseas 
 Face masks sold out and temperature checks at airports and train stations became the new norm as China strives to control the outbreak of a new virus that has reached four other countries and territories and threatens to spread further during the Lunar New Year travel rush.

Anxiety grew both at home and abroad after Chinese government expert Zhong Nanshan confirmed fears on state television that the new type of coronavirus can spread from human to human.

Six people have died and 291 have been infected in China, the National Health Commission said.

The stock prices of some companies that sell masks rose on Tuesday, but markets fell in much of Asia as investors worried about the potential impact on tourism and the economy.

READ MORE:

 * No NZ airport screening for cases of China's coronavirus

 * First man in Australia monitored for coronavirus, authorities confirm

 * Explainer: What is coronavirus and how worried should we be?

 * Human-to-human transmission confirmed in China coronavirus

Concerned about a global outbreak similar to SARS, another coronavirus that spread from China to more than a dozen countries in 2002-2003, numerous nations have adopted screening measures for travellers from China, especially those arriving from Wuhan, the central city where the virus appears to have originated.

Guards at Wuhan's airport pointed electronic thermometers at travellers. Several online retailers were sold out of masks, which were being sold for more than 10 times their original price. Users of the popular Weibo social media platform urged others to wash their hands and stay home.

Outside the Wuhan Medical Treatment Centre, where many of the coronavirus patients are receiving care, several workers were dressed in full-body biohazard suits, supplemented by goggles, masks and plastic wrapped around their shoes.

While many wore masks in Wuhan, streets were far from deserted and people appeared to be carrying on with their regular activities.

"I'm not that worried," said Helen Cao, a Wuhan resident who was shopping on a downtown avenue lined with stores and full of pedestrians. Like many in the city, she began wearing a mask after hearing Zhong's assessment of human-to-human transmission.

"Maybe people from other places are more concerned about our health, but (Wuhan) locals actually are continuing to eat, go out and take strolls, go clubbing at night," Cao said. "Everything's very normal, everyone's just wearing masks, nothing more."

Initial symptoms of the new coronavirus include fever, cough, tightness of the chest and shortness of breath.

The first cases late last month were connected to a seafood market, and transmission was thought to be occurring from animals to humans. Authorities previously had not confirmed human-to-human transmission.

In addition to 258 cases in Wuhan, more than 20 have been diagnosed in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangdong province in the south and Zhejiang in the east. Four cases have been confirmed overseas among Chinese travellers in South Korea, Japan and Thailand. A Taiwanese businesswoman who just returned from Wuhan tested positive for the virus, Taiwan's Centres for Disease Control reported Tuesday.

Fifteen medical workers have also tested positive for the virus, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission said.

Two cases in Guangdong were people who had not visited Wuhan but fell ill after family members returned from there. Zhong cited those as evidence the disease had spread between humans.

Australia, Japan, South Korea and the US were among the countries increasing airport screenings. Three weekly direct flights from Wuhan to Sydney will be met by border security and biosecurity staff for assessments, chief Australian medical officer Brendan Murphy told reporters.

"Please take every possible precaution," Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe instructed the health minister and other government departments.

The coronavirus family includes those that cause the common cold, but some found in bats, camels and other animals have evolved into more severe illnesses like SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, and MERS, Middle East respiratory syndrome.

The possibility the virus can be transmitted between people increases the chances it could spread faster and more widely. The Chinese government has estimated people will make around 3 billion trips during the Lunar New Year travel season, but some social media users have said they may stay home due to concern about the virus.

In his first public remarks on the illness, Chinese President Xi Jinping instructed government departments to promptly release information on the virus and deepen international cooperation.

When SARS began infecting people in southern China, the Chinese government initially tried to conceal the severity of the epidemic, which ended up killing nearly 800 people. The cover-up was exposed by a high-ranking physician.

Gabriel Leung, dean of medicine at the University of Hong Kong, said Chinese authorities have responded much more quickly this time.

"Our underlying assumptions are the force of infection is very different now ... because so many public health measures have been undertaken and so many interventions have been executed," Leung told reporters at a briefing.

Leung, who was heavily involved in the response to SARS, said modelling shows that cases will multiply over the coming weeks but the outbreak will gradually lose momentum as precautions take effect.

For the moment, the new coronavirus appears to be far less lethal than SARS.

"Based on current information, an animal source seems the most likely primary source of this outbreak with limited human-to-human transmission occurring between close contacts," World Health Organisation spokesman Tarik Jasarevic said at a briefing.

"Based on current data, some new cases seem to experience milder diseases which is within the milder end of the spectrum of symptoms caused by respiratory illnesses," Jasarevic said.

"We will resolutely contain the spread of the epidemic," Geng said.

Surgical masks were mandatory Tuesday at Beijing United Family Hospital, where all visitors had their temperatures taken at the entrance.

At one pharmacy in Shanghai, a shopkeeper named Liu Zhuzhen said more than 100 people had bought masks by midday. They were already sold out despite having recently been restocked.

"Unless it's necessary, people outside should not come to Wuhan, and citizens of Wuhan should not leave the city," Zhou said.

Leader Xi Jinping has called for tough measures and said "party committees, governments and relevant departments at all levels should put people's lives and health first."

At the airport in Wuhan, the temperatures of departing passengers were checked and outbound tour groups were banned from leaving the city. Virtually everyone in a public role, from traffic police officers to bank tellers, is wearing a protective face mask.

One case of new virus has been detected in Japan. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe urged officials to step up quarantine checks at airports and other entry points. Japan will require visitors arriving from Wuhan to fill in health forms, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said.

Japan confirmed last week that a man in his 30s tested positive for the coronavirus after returning from the Chinese city. The Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare said it tracked down and is monitoring 41 people who had contact with the patient. The ministry says none of them have developed a fever, tight chest or other initial symptoms of the new virus.

The semi-autonomous Chinese city is one of the most popular destinations for mainland Chinese. Along with stepped-up surveillance, additional cleaning and disinfection measures have been ordered for planes and trains from Wuhan as well as for train stations and the airport.

Acting Chief Executive Matthew Cheung on Tuesday said authorities are ready for a worst-case scenario and are on extremely high alert.

A lack of information and low levels of vigilance were blamed for Hong Kong becoming the second-hardest hit area by SARS after mainland China in the early 2000s. As in much of mainland China, Hong Kong residents favour traditional markets where live poultry and other animals are sold. The government health department has advised people against visiting such markets or touching animals or their droppings.

The US has begun screening passengers on flights from Wuhan arriving at John F. Kennedy International Airport, San Francisco International Airport and Los Angeles International airport - the three major ports of entry to the US.

Initial screenings are expected to involve around 5000 passengers, according to the Centers for Disease Control. The CDC said it has developed a test to detect the new coronavirus and plans to share the diagnostic tool with domestic and international agencies.

The US public health agency described its response to the China outbreak so far as "proactive preparedness precautions." It said, "Based on current information, however, the immediate health risk ... to the general American public is deemed to be low at this time.

South Korea, which reported its first case of the virus on Monday, has enacted strict airport monitoring measures.

At Incheon airport near Seoul, the only airport in South Korea with direct flights from Wuhan, authorities have been operating two special gates for passengers from the city since January 3. Officials use ear thermometers to check passengers' temperatures.

Since January 2, airport staff have also been spraying disinfectant at arrival halls twice a week, up from once a week previously. Handrails of moving walkways and escalators, elevator buttons and doors, drinking fountains and other sensitive areas are also wiped with disinfectant twice a day, the airport said.

In 2015, South Korea suffered an outbreak of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome which killed 36 people and sickened nearly 200.

Nigeria's government says health authorities at points of entry are on alert for cases of coronavirus arriving in Africa's most populous country.

The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control asked that travellers from Wuhan report to a medical facility and the centre if they feel ill. China is Africa's top trading partner.

South Africa's National Institute for Communicable Diseases said anyone with a severe respiratory illness should be tested if they have travelled to Wuhan within two weeks or had close physical contact with a coronavirus patient or treatment at a facility where a confirmed case has been reported.

There were more than 200,000 Chinese workers in Africa as of the end of 2017, not including numerous informal migrants such as traders and shopkeepers, according to the China Africa Research Initiative at Johns Hopkins University.

India announced that it will expand thermal screening of passengers arriving from China, including Hong Kong, to seven airports from the current three.

In-flight announcements before arrival will direct passengers with a fever or cough who have travelled to Wuhan in the previous 14 days to declare themselves to health authorities. Thermal screening will begin in Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Cochin, and continue in Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata, the Ministry of Civil Aviation said.

Singapore will expand temperature screening at Changi Airport, one of Asia's busiest travel hubs, for all travellers on flights arriving from China beginning on Wednesday.

The health ministry said individuals with pneumonia and a history of travel to Wuhan within 14 days of the onset of symptoms will be isolated in a hospital as a precautionary measure and investigated.

Neighbouring Malaysia has also beefed up screening at Kuala Lumpur International Airport. Deputy health Minister Lee Boon Chye, inspecting health screening at the airport Tuesday, said staff are being trained to handle possible cases.

"If a case emerges, then we may have to take more drastic measures, but for now, we hope we can nip it at the entry point," Lee told reporters.

Bangladesh civil aviation authorities have ordered airport managers to start screening incoming passengers from China. A.H.M. Touhid-ul Ahsan, director of the main Shahjalal International Airport, said doctors at the airport would look for fevers, coughs, breathing difficulties and sore throats. The country's Institute of Epidemiology, Disease Control and Research will be notified of any passengers with symptoms for further examination, he said.

Brendan Murphy, Australia's chief medical officer, said biosecurity staff and state health officials in New South Wales are meeting flights from Wuhan and are distributing pamphlets printed in English and Chinese to all passengers. The pamphlets describe symptoms of infection and ask people to identify themselves if they are experiencing any.

Australian health officials said a man who had travelled to Wuhan was placed in isolation in Brisbane after developing a respiratory illness but had recovered.

Russia's Healthcare Ministry described the virus as a biological hazard for the country. Speaking at the Russian parliament on Tuesday, Deputy Minister Sergei Krayevoy said the virus was a "striking example" of the biological threats Russia faces.

The Russian public health service, Rospotrebnadzor, said it had developed a testing kit that would allow labs to detect the new coronavirus quickly.

Russia is one of the three most popular tourist destinations for people from China, according to Russian officials. They estimate that about 2 million tourists from China visited Russia in 2018.