Australians warned after a global outbreak of a SARS-like virus 
 A Brisbane man is being confined to his house and awaiting test results after being suspected of recovering from a new SARS-like virus that has killed six people.

The virus, an as-yet unnamed variant of the coronavirus, was first detected in Wuhan, China last month but has now breached China's borders.

Australia Chief Medical Officer Brendan Murphy alerted parliament on Tuesday to 'a human coronavirus with pandemic potential' and authorised officials to isolate people at airport if they display symptoms.

Queensland's chief health officer, Jeanette Young, has declared the virus a 'public health incident of state significance' and those who had contact with the man have been checked - though noone else has reported being sick.

Authorities at Australia's quarantine checkpoints have also ramped up suveillance measures after the World Health Organisation revealed the virus can be transferred between humans.

A total of 317 people have caught the virus across Asia, including 20 healthcare workers.

The Brisbane man returned on a flight from Wuhan on January 8 and, though is believed to have recovered from the virus, the results are expected back for the man on Wednesday or Thursday which would indicate if the virus had made it to Australia.

'There's no vaccine at this stage for this virus and we don't see one on the horizon,' Dr Young said according to The Courier Mail.

'From China, we understand that they've seen more than 200 cases admitted to hospital and out of those, nine have been serious'.

'There's no specific treatment other than supportive care... It is causing severe illness in a small number of people'.

The new coronavirus strain is thought to have spread from animals to people through Wuhan's South China Seafood City Market, which also sells chickens, bats, and marmots.

Dr Young said the virus causes flu-like symptoms including a sore throat, fever and coughing.

Cases have been reported in Japan, Thailand, South Korea, and Taiwan.

University of Queensland associate professor of virology Ian Mackay said it was the 'perfect storm' for the virus because it's happening in China's flu seasons meaning it can be mistaken for the common flu and Chinese lunar new year which means a mass migration of Chinese tourists.

Director of infectious diseases and immunology at the Menzies Health Institute Professor Nigel MacMillan said that Australia has excellent surveillance measures.

He said that though good public health measures and controls Australia is able to keep on top of new viruses which are constantly emerging such as the 2003 SARS virus that spread to a dozen countries and killed 774 people.

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has set the travel advice for Wuhan, China to level two - exercise a high degree of caution.

Federal Education Minister Dan Tehan said the government would do everything necessary to ensure the thousands of Chinese students entering the country would not affect the health of Australians.

'[The government] will put all necessary steps in place to ensure everything is done to keep Australians disease-free,' he said.