Health Ministry issues alert on Novel Coronavirus, Chinese cousin of SARS | India News - Times of India 
 LUCKNOW: The state health department sounded an alert against Novel Coronavirus (nCoV), a cousin of the SARS virus which has infected more than 250 people since December 2019 when its outbreak was first reported in Wuhan city in China. Though cases have been reported in Thailand, Japan and South Korea as well, a group of World Health Organisation experts monitoring the situation are yet to ascertain if the virus is a public health emergency of international concern and recommend steps to manage it.Acting on an update by the WHO, union ministry of health and family welfare, officials issued advisories and directed state governments to take preventive steps. “The integrated disease surveillance machinery has been put on alert as a usual readiness measure,” a ministry official told TOI.An official communique by secretary health Preeti Sudan set things rolling in UP on Monday. Accordingly, district health officials made arrangement for scanning of all persons entering India from China at the airport. In addition, health staff has been asked to create isolation wards in hospitals and ensure that sample collection facilities in each of them.Chief medical officer, Lucknow Dr Narendra Agarwal informed that a thermal screening team has been engaged at the Amausi Airport to segregate and isolate any suspected cases before they possibly mingle with the population. “Any suspected case would be taken straight to the isolation wards from where his/her samples would be collected and sent for testing to NIV Pune,” said Dr Agarwal. Isolation wards have been set up in SGPGI, KGMU and RML Institute besides Balrampur and Civil hospitals.A WHO note on nCoV states: “Coronaviruses (CoV) are a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV). A novel coronavirus (nCoV) is a new strain that has not been previously identified in humans.”Citing relevant medical literature, former head of microbiology department, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences Dr TN Dhole said: “Coronaviruses are zoonotic which means that they are transmitted between animals and people. Detailed investigations found that SARS-CoV was transmitted from civet cats to humans and MERS-CoV from dromedary camels to humans. Several known coronaviruses are circulating in animals that have not yet infected humans.”Common signs of infection include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties. In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and even death.