China's virus may have been lurking in animals for DECADES 
 The new Chinese coronavirus which has killed six people may have been lurking in animals for decades, a leading expert has said.

Sir Jeremy Farrar, a renowned specialist in infectious disease epidemics, said the virus isn't new but has likely adapted to infect humans.

Officials say the never-before-seen infection emerged from an animal source, much like the deadly SARS, HIV and Ebola viruses.

Authorities have pointed the blame on food markets in Wuhan, the Chinese city at the centre of the outbreak that scientists are scrambling to contain.

Rodents and bats among other animals are slaughtered and sold in traditional 'wet markets', which tourists flock to see the 'real' side of the country.

Viruses – including ones carried by animals – are constantly changing and may over time become strong enough to infect humans.

People who touch infected animal bodily fluids, such as saliva, are at risk of such viruses. However, it is not clear how the new coronavirus is transmitted yet.

Sir Jeremy, director of the UK-based global health charity Wellcome, told MailOnline: 'This is absolutely not a brand new virus.

'This will have been circulating in animals in China and maybe other parts of Asia, probably for years... if not decades.'

He added that it probably hadn't had an effect on humans until now, or caused such mild infections that 'no-one was bothered about' it.

But Sir Jeremy said 'something changed', claiming the virus may have adapted to animals or mutated to become infectious to humans.

Officials in China confirmed yesterday that the virus, which has still not been named but is nicknamed nCoV, can spread between humans.

Cases of the pneumonia-causing virus have been spotted across China, South Korea, Thailand, Japan and Taiwan.

A total of 325 people have caught the virus across Asia - a six-fold increase in a few days. Those infected include 20 healthcare workers.

Suspected cases have sprung up in Australia, North Korea and Philippines in recent days.

A bout of mysterious pneumonia cases first left medics baffled at the end of December in Wuhan, a Chinese city with a population of 11million.

Huanan Wholesale Seafood Market was shut for tests, with the majority of infected patients having worked or visited there.

It has been shut since January 1. Sir Jeremy said animal markets are a 'real source of infection'.

He added: 'It’s a seafood market but it also had animals being sold, from domestic chickens and ducks to all sorts of other animals.

'The mixing of animals in an animal market has been a very common way that these infections have come about.

'Sometimes these viruses can adapt to humans, replicate and cause human infections.'

Pointing at HIV and Ebola, Sir Jeremy said: 'Many, many infections in humans that we know of today actually originated in animals.'

SARS, the deadly virus which started in southern China and killed more than 700 people in the early 2000s, came out of a similar market.

And avian flu, another zootonic disease which can infect humans, can be spread from live birds sold at markets or poultry farms.

Wet markets often sell live animals, many of which are illegal or exotic. The vast number of species allows a virus to adapt.

Mr Farrar said: 'Animals mixing allows the virus to be in lots of different hosts, which allows it to adapt to those animals.

'The virus can them come across to humans [who buy and sell at the market].'

Professor Paul Hunter, an infectious diseases expert at the University of East Anglia, said the coronavirus 'almost certainly' came from animals.

He said people in China are in closer contact with wild animals than those in Western societies because their diet is so varied.

'With China particularly, there is a closer link to animals and what sort of animals people consume,' Professor Hunter said.

'When people go to the market to buy chicken for the week, it's often alive when you buy it. People butcher the animal themselves at home or in the street.'

Infected animals may shed the virus in their saliva, mucous and faeces, which humans may come into contact with.

They may inhale droplets of the virus from the air, or physically touch an infected animal.

Scientists are still trying to work out how the new Chinese virus attacks its host and how deadly it is.

China’s National Health Commission revealed the unnamed infection is spread from the lungs and may travel in saliva – such as through coughs.

Professor Zhong Nanshan, leader of the National Health Commission's expert team, revealed the virus is likely to be spread by saliva in a press conference today.

He told the meeting: 'As of now, it is affirmative that the new strain of coronavirus can be passed between humans.

'The virus is spread through respiratory system and distance of impact is not long, but it is possible that the virus was passed after being stuck to saliva.'

Professor Zhong said officials must 'quarantine the patients and stop them from contacting others'.

It follows the confirmation that the never-before-seen SARS-like coronavirus had spread between humans.

Taiwan today confirmed its first case of the lethal bug, the fourth territory to report a case of the virus outside of China, following Thailand, South Korea and Japan.

It can also be revealed that:

Six people have died from the virus - three of which were announced by health officials today.

The deaths of an 89-year-old man who lived in Wuhan, a 66-year-old man, known only as Li, and a 48-year-old woman, known only as Yin, were reported by state media.

Amid the rapidly growing number of cases, millions of people in China are preparing to travel abroad for Lunar New Year.

Professor John Oxford, a virologist at Queen Mary College, admitted he was 'quaking in my shoes' over the potential spread of the virus that could happen over the Chinese New Year.

He told LBC: 'None of us have faced a new virus faced with so many people in a community travelling around.

'That's what's going to happen in China at the end of the week. Once they are close together in taxis or small rooms, then there may be a problem.'

And Professor Oxford added: 'The only way to stop it is physical cleaning and social distance - keeping away from people.'  