Jeff Bezos Back On Top As World’s Richest Person As Bernard Arnault’s Net Worth Falls $3.7 Billion 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	Jeff Bezos is back on top.
AFP via Getty ImagesJeff Bezos is the world’s richest person yet again. He was dethroned by luxury goods titan Bernard Arnault on Friday, and with markets closed over the weekend, Bezos spent three days in second place. Now, with Amazon stock up 0.5% as of 12:05 pm ET, the Amazon mogul is worth $116.1 billion, up $489 million from January 17—while Arnault’s fortune has fallen by $3.7 billion to $112.9 billion. 
LVMH stock is down 1.1% today due to fears that the new coronavirus outbreak in China will hurt tourism and shopping. The upcoming Lunar New Year holiday, which starts this weekend, is typically a boon for luxury retail and travel stocks. The virus, reminiscent of SARS, has infected nearly 300 people and killed at least six. Shares of peers Burberry and Compagnie Financière Richemont have also dipped.
“I remember the SARS outbreak very, very clearly and the impact it had,” ING chief economist Rob Carnell told CNBC. “These things have an enormous hit on economies.”
Bernard Arnault is the second-richest person in the world (again).
Getty ImagesArnault is not the only billionaire whose net worth has been hit by the panic. François Pinault, honorary chairman of LVMH rival Kering, which owns Saint Laurent and Gucci, is down $1.4 billion today to $37.5 billion as Kering stock dropped 2.1%. Casino mogul Sheldon Adelson’s net worth has fallen $1.3 billion to $40.9 billion as the Macau market accounts for nearly two-thirds of Las Vegas Sands Corp.’s revenue. A downgrade from Morgan Stanley also contributed to Las Vegas Sands’ 4% drop today.
Arnault and Bezos have switched places atop the world’s richest several times before. The two tycoons’ fortunes are now $3 billion apart, but with even small fluctuations in stock prices moving their fortunes by billions of dollars, this dance shows no signs of stopping.