Matildas set to travel to Wuhan for Olympic qualifiers despite coronavirus outbreak 
 The Matildas are preparing to travel to the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak after the Chinese Football Association reportedly ruled out relocating next week's Olympic qualifiers from the city of Wuhan.

The outbreak has put the Australian government on high alert after four people died from the mysterious virus, which reportedly originated in animals in Wuhan and can be spread by humans. A man in Brisbane has been quarantined and tested for the coronavirus after arriving from Wuhan

The virus, which was previously unknown to science, causes pneumonia-like symptoms and can be passed from person to person. The World Health Organisation has now convened an emergency meeting in the coming days to consider how big a threat the outbreak poses.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison tweeted the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade's travel advice for Wuhan, urging travellers to "exercise a high degree of caution" due to the outbreak.

The risk of infection is low but Matildas coach Ante Milicic says he won't risk the health of the squad in the upcoming qualifiers. The FFA are closely monitoring developments in China and the Matildas' team doctor will brief players on how best to minimise the risk of infection before they travel early next week.

"As a coach we will always put the wellbeing of our players and staff first," Milicic said. "I have full confidence in the people that will be making these decisions so we are just really trying to focus on the football and know that when the time comes, the appropriate steps are being put in place."

Reports from China on Tuesday indicated the Chinese FA had ruled out relocating the Women's Olympic Qualifying group away from Wuhan despite rising concerns over the virus outbreak. All games between Australia, Thailand, China and Chinese Tapei will be played at the Five Rings Sports Centre in Wuhan.

The outbreak has already sparked calls for other events to be moved from the city, with the Philippines offering to host an Olympics Boxing qualifying tournament instead of having their athletes travel to Wuhan. As of Tuesday, no such proposal had been made for the Matildas' fixtures - though Milicic says there is constant dialogue about the outbreak in Wuhan.

"I am fully confident in the organisation. I know we have got he experts involved and they are monitoring the situation and they are in close contact not only with the people in China but the AFC and FIFA. There is a lot of correspondence going on," he said.

Despite the health concerns, the Matildas aren't focusing on the outbreak just yet as they undergo their preparations in Sydney this week before their scheduled departure for Wuhan on Tuesday.

"[We must] keep their focus on the football, that is all we can control. Those things are out of our control because the decision will be made based on the safety of the playing group and the staff," Milicic said. "We just focus on what we can do, training has been great. The girls have been good the first two days and we have got a double session on tomorrow so it's been good."

Defender Steph Catley was aware of the coronavirus outbreak but said she had not yet been briefed on the severity and its rate of infection by the team's doctor. He arrived in camp on Tuesday and will prepare the players on ways to avoid infection in Wuhan.

"I don't think we would be there if it was extremely dangerous. I am sure our doctor is all over it and [will] protect us, make sure we are knowledgeable and not putting ourselves in any risky situations," she said. "It's obviously not ideal but we are over there to play football and win games so I am sure we will do it in the safest way possible."