CDC expected to announce first US case of coronavirus in Washington state, reports say 
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Tuesday is expected to announce the first U.S. case of a deadly new coronavirus that has killed six people in China, according to media reports.

CNN said the CDC is expected to announce the case was diagnosed in Washington state. The New York Times and others also reported on the case.

Hundreds of people in China have been diagnosed with the virus, most in the city of Wuhan. But it has spread to other areas of the country, and a handful of cases have been diagnosed in Thailand, South Korea and Japan.

The World Health Organization is gathering a panel of experts on coronavirus Wednesday in Geneva, Switzerland, to determine whether the outbreak constitutes an international public health emergency and how it can be managed.

Many of the initial cases were linked to a seafood market in Wuhan, but Chinese health officials said this week that human-to-human transmission has been confirmed.

The coronavirus may lead to a severe form of pneumonia which may be deadly, said Robert Glatter, an emergency physician at New York's Lenox Hill Hospital. People with a history of chronic lung disease may be at higher risk for "adverse outcomes," he said.

The CDC already has begun enhanced health screenings to detect travelers sickened by coronavirus coming at airports in San Francisco, New York and Los Angeles. The CDC said it is monitoring coronavirus and the risk for spreading into the U.S.

"We must be vigilant to ensure that adequate screening processes are in place at all US airports," Glatter said.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as pneumonia to Middle East respiratory syndrome, known as MERS, and severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. Common signs of infection include fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties. In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and death.

Coronaviruses, Ebola and SARS are zoonotic, meaning they are transmitted between animals and people. Ebola was carried by fruit bats, which spread it to other animals. SARS was transmitted from civet cats to humans and MERS from camels to humans.