U.S. airports screening passengers from Wuhan, China, for deadly virus; no screening in Chicago 
 Three U.S. airports are screening travelers arriving from Wuhan, China, for symptoms of a new virus that has killed three people and infected more than 200 in China, though screening is not taking place in Chicago.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention officials said they began asking passengers traveling from Wuhan to San Francisco International Airport, Los Angeles International Airport and New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport about symptoms and checking their temperatures on Friday. Passengers with a fever and symptoms associated with the virus, which causes pneumonia-like symptoms, will receive additional evaluation.The CDC is sending 100 staffers to help handle screenings at the three airports, which receive most travelers arriving in the U.S. from Wuhan. O’Hare International Airport has no daily non-stop flights from Wuhan, but airline passengers traveling to Chicago from Wuhan could face screening if connecting through Los Angeles, San Francisco or New York.Health authorities in China said the new coronavirus has spread to more than 200 people since it first appeared late last month, according to the CDC. A handful of cases have also been reported among travelers from Wuhan to Thailand, Japan and South Korea. Many patients reportedly had some link to a large seafood and animal market which has since been closed for cleaning and disinfection.The CDC said Friday it considers the risk to people in the U.S. to be low but that it is “taking proactive preparedness precautions.”CDC officials estimated roughly 5,000 people could go through health screenings at the three airports in the next couple weeks. January is one of the peak periods for travel from China because of the Lunar New Year.The agency is advising travelers to Wuhan to avoid animals, animal markets and contact with people who are sick. The virus likely spreads from animals to people but there may also have been limited spread between people, officials said.People who traveled to Wuhan and have a fever, cough or difficulty breathing should stay home except to seek medical care and call ahead to notify doctors about their symptoms and recent travel, according to the CDC.lzumbach@chicagotribune.com