1st confirmed case of new coronavirus reported in Washington state: CDC 
 1st confirmed case of new coronavirus reported in Washington state: CDC
Nearly 300 people have been sickened in China from the virus. 

January 21, 2020, 7:09 PM
3 min read




The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Tuesday said the first case of the new coronavirus that has sickened nearly 300 people in Asia has been reported in a patient in Washington State.

At least six people have died, according to officials.
Commuters wearing face masks walk in a railway station in Wuhan, in China's central Hubei province, Jan. 21, 2020. Countries in Asia have ramped up measures to block the spread of a new virus as the death toll in China rose to six and the number of cases surpassed 300.
Commuters wearing face masks walk in a railway station in Wuhan, in China's central Hubei province, Jan. 21, 2020. Countries in Asia have ramped up measures to block the spread of a new virus as the death toll in China rose to six and the number of cases surpassed 300.AFP via Getty Images


Chinese authorities have said the outbreak began in a seafood and live animal market in the city of Wuhan, China.


Cases have also been reported in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Taiwan, Japan, Thailand and South Korea.
A picture taken Jan. 21, 2020, shows thermal scanning equipment set up in Hankou railway station in Wuhan, in China's central Hubei province.
A picture taken Jan. 21, 2020, shows thermal scanning equipment set up in Hankou railway station in Wuhan, in China's central Hubei province.Str/AFP via Getty Images


The U.S. began screening for the new virus at three U.S. airports in New York, San Francisco and Los Angeles on Friday.


As authorities in China try to control and contain the outbreak, the World Health Organization will meet Wednesday in Geneva to decide whether or not to declare the outbreak a public health emergency of international concern.


This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.