First case of deadly Chinese coronavirus in US 
 A man in Washington state has been diagnosed with the mysterious coronavirus virus, the first case confirmed in the United States since the illnesses first appeared in China last month and which has killed at least six people and sickened hundreds more in Asia, according to people familiar with the investigation.

The man is in stable condition. He arrived in the United States last week, before federal health officials began screening travellers from the central Chinese city of Wuhan at Los Angeles, San Francisco and New York's John F. Kennedy international airports.

The outbreak has grown rapidly in recent days, with authorities in China reporting cases in multiple cities. The World Health Organization is meeting tomorrow to decide whether to declare the outbreak a public health emergency.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is expected to announce details about the US case in an afternoon news conference.

READ MORE:

 * Coronavirus anxiety rises 

 * No NZ airport screening for cases of China's coronavirus

 * First man in Australia monitored for coronavirus, authorities confirm

 * Explainer: What is coronavirus and how worried should we be?

 * Human-to-human transmission confirmed in China coronavirus​

Here's what you should know about the illnesss:

WHAT IS THE DISEASE?

Scientists have identified it as a new kind of coronavirus. There are many known types of coronaviruses. Some cause the common cold. Others found in bats, camels and other animals have evolved into more severe illnesses such as SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome) or MERS (Middle East respiratory syndrome).

WHY IS IT CALLED A CORONAVIRUS?

Corona comes from Latin and refers to crowns or halos. Under a microscope, these viruses resemble crowns or halos.

WHEN WAS THE NEW VIRUS FOUND?

The outbreak started late last month in the city of Wuhan in central China, apparently at a food market.

HOW MANY PEOPLE HAVE IT AND HOW WIDESPREAD IS IT?

About 300 cases have been identified. There are about 260 cases in Wuhan, according to Chinese officials. Cases in other Chinese cities, including Beijing and Shanghai, total around 30. They were reported with the onset of an annual travel rush for the Lunar New Year holiday. Many Chinese travel abroad for the holiday and a few cases have been confirmed outside the mainland - in South Korea, Japan, Thailand and Taiwan. That travel rush is expected to spread the disease more widely.

WHAT ARE THE SYMPTOMS?

Common symptoms include a runny nose, headache, cough and fever. Shortness of breath, chills and body aches are associated with more dangerous kinds of coronavirus, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Many coronaviruses can spread through coughing or sneezing, or by touching an infected person. Initially, authorities in China said there was no evidence of human-to-human transmission in the present outbreak. But an expert panel has concluded there have been at least a few cases of people catching it from others, raising the possibility it could spread more widely.

COULD IT BE AS BAD AS SARS?

So far, the virus appears less dangerous and infectious than SARS, which also started in China and killed about 800 people. As of Tuesday, six deaths had been reported, all in Wuhan. Viruses can mutate into more dangerous and contagious forms, and it's too early to say what will happen with this one.