Live: NSW Now: Sydney Airport on high alert for coronavirus, light rail breaks down again 
 Here's what you need to know this morning.

NSW Health staff will assess passengers at Sydney Airport for coronavirus, which has claimed the lives of six people in China.

There are three flights into Sydney each week from Wuhan, China — where the illness originated — and from Thursday medical professionals will be on hand at the airport to immediately diagnose any passengers.

"If people have [flu-like symptoms], present to biosecurity staff and NSW Health will be there to assist and assess to determine if they need further testing," health protection director Jeremy McAnulty said.

"Symptoms of the virus include a fever with respiratory symptoms such as a cough, sore throat or shortness of breath."

There has been another major breakdown on Sydney's new light rail system with passengers on trams across the CBD asked to get off during last night's peak hour commute and catch a train instead.

Services came to a halt for 90 minutes from about 4:00pm after a tram broke down at Town Hall.

A maintenance crew fixed the problem but the tram was taken out of use, however, when it was heading back to the Randwick deport just after 6:00pm it broke down again.

ALTRAC, the company that operates the line, has confirmed the broken tram blocked the tracks at central.

Passengers on board trams across the CBD were forced to get off and advised to catch trains for travel between Circular Quay and Central.

Investigations will get underway this morning into two separate fires in Sydney yesterday — one which gutted a hall and canteen at a North Shore public school and another at a warehouse at Mascot.

The fire at Lane Cove Public School Huge broke out at 4:30pm, sending huge plumes of thick smoke across the district.

The hall and canteen were destroyed and it is unclear how it started, with investigations to get underway this morning.

Elsewhere, a massive fire at a warehouse at Mascot broke out last night with 80 firefighters needed to stop it spreading to other buildings in the industrial complex.

The cause of the fire is also unknown at this stage.

A 26-year-old man has died after being found unresponsive at Bilgola Beach on the Northern Beaches.

Emergency services were called just after 5:00pm on Tuesday after the man was pulled to shore by a friend.

He was treated by paramedics but died at the scene.