O’Hare to begin screening passengers from Wuhan, China, as deadly virus reaches U.S. 
 O’Hare International Airport will begin screening travelers from Wuhan, China, for symptoms of a new respiratory virus as health officials said a man in Washington State is infected with the virus, the first confirmed case of the illness in the United States.The virus has killed six people and infected close to 300 people in China. The U.S. is the fifth country to report seeing the illness, following China, Thailand, Japan, and South Korea.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention officials began screening passengers traveling from Wuhan to San Francisco International Airport, Los Angeles International Airport and New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport last week, asking about symptoms and checking their temperatures. Passengers with a fever and symptoms associated with the virus, which causes pneumonia-like symptoms, receive additional evaluation.Airport screening is being expanded to O’Hare and Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport this week, and travelers from Wuhan to the U.S. are being routed to the five airports that are conducting screening, CDC officials said Tuesday.Health authorities in China said the new coronavirus first appeared late last month and many patients had some link to a seafood and animal market in Wuhan, according to the CDC. The virus can spread from person to person in addition to being transmitted from animals to people, the CDC said Tuesday.The fact that the illness can spread between people “certainly raises the level of concern,” said Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases. But it’s not clear how easily it spreads from person to person, and officials continue to believe the risk to the American public is low, she said.The Washington man diagnosed with the virus returned to the Seattle area in the middle of last week after traveling to the Wuhan area. The man is in his 30s and is in good condition at a hospital in Everett, outside Seattle. He did not visit the markets or know anyone who had been ill, officials said.The agency is advising travelers to Wuhan to avoid animals, animal markets and contact with people who are sick.People who traveled to Wuhan and have a fever, cough or difficulty breathing should stay home except to seek medical care and call ahead to notify doctors about their symptoms and recent travel, according to the CDC.Officials around the world have implemented similar airport screenings in hopes of containing the virus during the busy Lunar New Year travel season.The Associated Press contributed.lzumbach@chicagotribune.com