Flights screens for horror SARS-like virus from tomorrow 
 Health officials at Sydney Airport will start assessing passengers from Wuhan for a new virus when the first direct flight lands on Thursday.

Staff from New South Wales Health will help federal biosecurity staff to monitor travellers following an outbreak of a new strain of coronavirus which is believed to have spread from a fish market in the Chinese city.

There are three direct flights from Wuhan to Sydney per week, landing on Thursdays, Saturdays and Mondays.

It comes as US health authorities on Tuesday announced the first case of a person on American soil.

The man, a US resident in his 30s who lives near Seattle, is in good condition, according to federal and state officials.

The man is being 'hospitalised out of an abundance of precaution, and for short term monitoring, not because there was severe illness,' said Chris Spitters, a Washington state health official.

There is one suspected case in Australia, with a man isolated at home in Brisbane for treatment.

Australia has raised its travel advice for Wuhan, telling people to exercise a high degree of caution.

There are three flights a week from Wuhan into Sydney and each of these flights will be met by biosecurity staff from Thursday.

Information will be displayed across all other points of entry into Australia to warn people who develop symptoms to seek urgent medical attention.

NSW Health announced on Tuesday evening it will assist commonwealth biosecurity staff at Sydney Airport to monitor those returning from Wuhan.

No cases of the novel coronavirus have been detected in NSW, the department said in a statement.

NSW Health Minister Brad Hazzard said health officials are working with the federal government and other jurisdictions to monitor the situation in China.

'Sydney is a popular destination for people travelling from China especially around the time of the Lunar New Year, so up-to-date health advice is paramount,' Mr Hazzard said in a statement on Tuesday.

Health workers in the state's public hospitals, as well as community-based GPs, have been given precautionary advice and the department has made novel coronavirus 2019 a notifiable disease under law.

NSW Health director of health protection Dr Jeremy McAnulty said advice is being given to people who may have already returned to the state from Wuhan, as symptoms may take up two weeks to develop.

These include a fever with respiratory symptoms such as shortness of breath, a cough or a sore throat.

'There is no need for alarm, but people should be aware of the emerging situation and if they develop symptoms on returning from affected areas overseas, they should call ahead before seeing their GP,' Dr McAnulty said in a statement on Tuesday.

'This virus does not appear to spread easily between people, but anyone with symptoms should practise simple hygiene by covering their coughs and sneezes with a tissue or their elbow and washing their hands thoroughly.'