Airports tighten screening of travellers after deadly flu-like virus kills six 
 Airports round the world have tightened screening of travellers from China, where the death toll from a mysterious flu-like virus has reached six.

The authorities fear millions travelling for China’s Lunar New Year holiday could increase the risk of the deadly coronavirus spreading, after it was confirmed the strain is contagious between humans.

More than 300 cases haves far been reported in China, mostly in Wuhan, a provincial capital and transportation hub, where the virus may have originated at a sea food market.

But it has also been spreading around other parts of China, including five cases in the national capital Beijing, and overseas to Thailand where two cases have been confirmed.

South Korea has also confirmed a case of the virus, along with Japan and Taiwan which have confirmed one case each.

Fifteen medical personnel are among those infected.

Masked workers were spraying disinfectant at Incheon international airport, west of Seoul, today.

While in Malaysia health officials were checking passengers in thermal scanner at Kuala Lumpur International Airport.

And nervous travellers were wearing protective face masks outside a railway station in Yichang in central China’s Hubei province, as the outbreak revives memories of the SARS pandemic, which killed 800.

It comes after footage filmed on a flight from Wuhan to Macau last week showed a medic - dressed in protective sterile clothing - screening passengers.

The World Health Organisation is holding an emergency committee meeting on Wednesday to consider declaring a global health emergency.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that cause illnesses ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars).

They usually are usually transmitted from animals to people.

However the new strain is thought to spread from person to person through coughing and sneezing.

Dr Nathalie MacDermott, National Institute for Health Research academic clinical lecturer, King’s College London, said: “While data is still limited it appears likely that the Wuhan Coronavirus is spread through contact with an infected person’s secretions and respiratory droplet infection - this is contact with small particles in the air that occur when an infected person coughs or sneezes.”

However WHO is not currently recommending restriction of travel or trade.

The organisation is urging people to wash their hands regularly, cover their nose and mouth when coughing and sneezing and to thoroughly cook meat and fish to prevent the infection spreading.

It also recommends avoiding close contact with anyone showing symptoms of respiratory illness such as coughing and sneezing.

Public Health England said travellers to Wuhan should practise good hand and respiratory hygiene and avoid animal and bird markets.