What Is Wuhan Coronavirus and How Much Should I Worry About It? 
 A new type of viral illness was discovered in China recently, and the US just got its first case in a recent traveler who arrived in Washington state. The virus, a coronavirus related to SARS and MERS, is sometimes fatal.

Who has gotten sick?

The first few people to be affected had all shopped or worked at a seafood and live animal market in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province in China. They had pneumonia, fever and trouble breathing.

So far, six people have died and hundreds more have been infected. People with the virus have traveled to other parts of China, and to other countries as well, including the first case in the US reported today.

What do we know about the virus?

We have its genome. The virus has been isolated and sequenced, and it’s a coronavirus. Some coronaviruses cause mild cold-like illnesses, while others are more severe. If you recall the SARS infections in China in 2003, or MERS in the middle east (discovered in 2012), those were both coronaviruses.

The virus doesn’t have an official name, but you may see people calling it “2019-nCoV,” which stands for “novel coronavirus.” The virus was first discovered in late 2019.

At first, public health officials weren’t sure if the virus could be transmitted from person to person, or if everybody was picking it up from one of the animals at the market. But more recently it’s become clear that people are transmitting it to each other, including to health care workers.

Since the virus is still so new, not much is known about it, including how deadly it really is. It appears to be less contagious than measles or the flu, but it’s still enough of a concern that travelers are being screened.

Could it spread in the US?

Possibly, which is why the CDC is keeping a close eye on it. They recently announced they’ll be screening passengers at the three airports where people most commonly arrive from Wuhan: San Francisco (SFO), New York (JFK), and Los Angeles (LAX).

The World Health Organization is holding an emergency meeting about the virus tomorrow, where they will decide whether the outbreak should be treated as a public health emergency, and if so, what actions to take. 

What should I do?

The CDC issued a Level 2 (out of 3) travel alert, which means we should “practice enhanced precautions.” If you travel to Wuhan: 

Avoid contact with sick people, animal markets, and animals of any sort, alive or dead. 

Wash your hands often.

Be prepared to answer questions about your health and travel history when you return. 

The CDC notes that “older people and people with underlying health conditions” seem to be at the greatest risk of severe disease, and may want to reconsider their travel plans. 

Beyond that, we don’t know much. Expect the CDC to release more information, and possibly update the travel alert, as the situation develops.