O'Hare Airport added to airports screening for coronavirus 
 Public health screenings for a new strain of coronavirus was expanded Tuesday to two more airports — Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport (ORD) and Atlanta’s Hartsfield Jackson International Airport (ATL).


The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention last week began emergency health screenings for passengers arriving to the United States at airports in New York City, Los Angeles and San Francisco.  


            
            
        Those screenings, looking to detect signs of a fever or respiratory congestion, were aimed particularly at passengers who have a history of travel to Wuhan, China. That is where an outbreak of pneumonia in December was believed to have been caused by this new strain of coronavirus.


The screenings being implemented at O’Hare come as the CDC confirmed the first case of the virus in United States in the state of Washington on Tuesday. The passenger arrived in the U.S. from Wuhan on Jan. 15.


The CDC said there are now growing indications that limited person-to-person spread of the virus may be happening. Initially health officials thought the new virus was spreading only from animal to person. The new concerns about person-to-person spread prompted the addition of ORD and ATL airports to locations for health screenings.


The CDC also said on Tuesday that even though there also has been some limited person-to-person spread of this virus in Asia, the organization continues to believe the risk to the American public at large “remains low at this time.” But the CDC added that “this is a rapidly-evolving situation."


Unlike airports in San Francisco, New York and Los Angeles, O’Hare has a somewhat limited number of flights to and from destinations in China. United Airlines flies nonstop to Shanghai and Beijing, while Cathay Pacific flies to Hong Kong. Hainan Airlines flies to Beijing and Chengdu, China from O’Hare. 


American Airlines ended its nonstop service from Chicago to both Shanghai and Beijing in 2018.