United Rings Up a 50% Improvement In Fourth Quater, Full Year Profits But Investors Fret Over Coronavirus 
 Not so surprisingly United Airlines today reported fourth quarter 2019 earnings that beat the average of analysts’ published expectations by earning an adjusted net profit of $676 million, or $2.67 a share, slightly better than analysts’ expectation of $2.63 in adjusted earnings per share.
Such “beats” have become almost standard for United and other major airlines in recent years; hence the lack of surprise created by what nominally should be a positive surprise.
Unadjusted earnings for the fourth quarter were $641 million, or $2.53 a share, up 50% from the same period in 2018. Pre-tax fourth quarter earnings of $844 million created a 7.3% operating margin, or profit remaining after paying expenses. That represented a 2.5 percentage point increase in margin year-over-year.
For all of 2019 United earned $3 billion, or $11.58 per share, up 51% from 2018’s net profit. Pre-tax earnings of $3.9 billion yielded a pre-tax profit margin of 9% that was 2.6 percentage profits higher than in the previous year.
Those numbers, plus United’s strongly positive first quarter outlook helped bolster – though only a bit - not only United’s but other big U.S. carriers’ stock prices in after hours training. Those stocks all hits during trading today after the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed the first U.S. case in the United States of coronavirus, a fast-spreading and potentially deadly disease that officially has sickened more than 200 people in China – and likely many hundreds more than that. The first U.S. case was reported in Washington State. Early on coronavirus produces symptoms similar to those produced by common colds. But coronavirus quickly can become a much more serious, and even deadly health issue similar to SARS, or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome.  The spread of the coronavirus in China and other Asian nations has raised concerns about the disease impact on international travel demand. Concerns about the SARS virus’ spread in 2003 cut deeply into travel demand in the U.S. and globally in 2003, when the industry was still struggling to recover from recession and the 9/11 terrorist attacks in 2001.
United’s shares closed today at $85.79, down 4.36% but traded as high as $86.50 shortly after the close and the company’s release of its 2019 fourth quarter results. Delta Airlines closed at $60.34 a share, down 2.72% but traded a few cents higher after the close. American Airlines shares close at $27.20 but also traded a bit higher after the close.
United, in its earnings release, touted that it met its goal, set two years ago, of reporting adjusted 2019 per share profits of between $11 and $13. Those adjusted 2019 per share profits equaled $12.05.
CEO Oscar Munoz, who is set to retire at the end of March and be replaced by the airlines’ current president Scott Kirby, said that last year “was a great year for our United team — highlighted by achieving our $11 to $13 adjusted EPS target a full year ahead of schedule. With a four-quarter streak of expanding profit margins, when all the results are in we expect our full year 2019 pre-tax margin growth to be the highest amongst our largest competitors. When I look at United's fundamental strength, I could not be prouder of what we've accomplished in such a short time. This is the New United we set out to build more than four years ago. As we embark on a new year and decade, I believe the outlook for United's future has never been brighter."
In addition to the strong 2019 earnings report United officials said they expect relatively strong performance in the first quarter of this year. The first quarter historically is the weakest for U.S. airlines. The company said it expects to earn between 75 cents and $1.25 cents a share, vs. a consensus analyst forecast of 81 cents a share. It added that unit revenue – the amount of money taken in for each seat mile flown, should be flat to up $2 in the first quarter, an indicator of expected stable-to-growing demand during this, the weakest quarter of the year, historically, for travel demand.
The carrier forecast first-quarter unit revenue of flat to up 2%. It said it expected nonfuel unit costs to rise between 1% to 2%.
United’s results from 2019 were impacted significantly by the grounding last March of the Boeing 737 MAX. United had 15 such planes in operation at the time with more scheduled to be delivered over the balance of the year and during each of the next few years. However, Southwest and American suffered more from the 737 MAX groundings because they had 35 and 25 MAX planes, respectively in their fleets, at the time of the groundings, and even more on order than United.