Victoria on high alert for deadly China virus 
 Victorian doctors have been put on high alert amid concerns a deadly new virus could make its way to Australia. 
The mysterious SARS-like novel coronavirus has claimed at least six lives after it was first detected in China in December.
A Brisbane man, who had recently returned from the city of Wuhan, is thought to potentially have the virus and was this week placed in isolation while doctors await his test results.
Victoria’s Acting Chief Health Officer Dr Angie Bone said health practitioners around the state were on high alert.
“Victorians and visitors returning from Wuhan City in China have been advised to closely monitor their health following an increase in the number of novel coronavirus cases,” she said.
“We have issued an alert to hospitals and GPs and we are providing advice about the symptoms.”
Speaking this morning, Australia’s chief medical officer Brendan Murphy said it was likely the virus would be detected in Australia after a case was confirmed in the United States overnight.
“We have more concern than we have next week,” he told the ABC this morning.
It comes as passengers flying into Australia from the Chinese virus hot spot will be screened at the airport amid fears the killer disease might have reached the country.
Australians going to the Chinese city of Wuhan are being advised to exercise a “high degree of caution”.
Travellers arriving from Wuhan will be screened and handed information pamphlets in English and Chinese about the virus’s symptoms and risks.
WHAT IS CORONAVIRUS?
The novel coronavirus is in the same family as SARS, which claimed more than 700 lives and spread around the world in the early 2000s.
Symptoms of the new virus include fever and respiratory issues, making it tricky to detect.
Australia’s chief medical officer, Brendan Murphy, the national response to the “rapidly evolving matter” included airport screening and information sharing.
“We have well-established mechanisms to detect and respond to ill travellers, and processes in place to implement further measures if the risk increases,” he said.
There are 160 flights from China to Australia every week.
MORE NEWS
 AUSSIE MAN TESTED FOR DEADLY CHINA VIRUS
 MONGOLS RAIDS LINKED TO EASTLINK SHOOTING
“If anyone has a fever or suspect they might have this disease and if they are suspected of having this condition, NSW Health will follow up as per our normal border security and biosecurity protocols,” Prof Murphy said.
Further screening is being considered after the World Health Organisation this week confirmed the virus could be transmitted between humans.
The WHO will convene an emergency committee this week to discuss if the outbreak constitutes an international public health emergency.
Cases have been confirmed in several areas of China as well as Thailand, South Korea and Japan.
tamsin.rose@news.com.au
@tamsinroses