1st case of coronavirus from China confirmed in U.S. 
 Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

A case of the new coronavirus from China has been confirmed in a patient in Washington state, just north of Seattle, federal health officials said Tuesday. The mysterious pneumonia-like illness has killed at least six people and sickened hundreds in Asia, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said.

In addition, the CDC said they will begin screening passengers for the virus at two additional airports: the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport and Chicago's O'Hare International Airport. On Jan. 17, the CDC started screening airplane passengers from the central Chinese city of Wuhan for signs of the respiratory illness in San Francisco, Los Angeles and New York. Now, all passengers whose flights originate in Wuhan will be rerouted to one of these five airports, the CDC said.

The outbreak has spread from Wuhan to cities including Beijing and Shanghai, the CDC said Tuesday. Cases have also been reported outside China, including in South Korea, Thailand and Japan.

The patient in Washington state, a resident of Snohomish County, is a male in his 30s. The CDC said the man arrived in the U.S. around Jan. 15 after visiting Wuhan. He had not, however, visited the seafood market where this virus is said to have originated.

Health officials said the man did not have any symptoms when he arrived, but had read about the viral outbreak online. When he started to develop symptoms, he reached out to his health care provider.

He's currently in good condition but remains hospitalized "out of an abundance of caution," health officials said.

"We are grateful the patient is doing well," Dr. Nancy Messonnier, director of the CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, said Tuesday during a call with reporters.

In a later interview with NBC News, Messonnier said "the risk to American public is low," but added that more information about the virus is emerging day by day.

Still, "we should expect to see additional cases in the U.S. and certainly around the world," she said.

The CDC has sent a team to Washington state to trace the patient's close contacts to determine if anyone else has become ill. The man lives alone.

Nearly all of the approximately 300 cases have been reported in China, including at least 14 health care workers who have fallen ill with the coronavirus known as 2019-nCoV.

In a news conference Tuesday afternoon, Washington Gov. Jay Inslee reiterated that the risk to residents of his state is low.

"This is certainly not a moment for panic or high anxiety," he said. "It’s a moment for vigilance."

Coronaviruses are a group of viruses that can cause a range of symptoms including a runny nose, cough, sore throat and fever. Some are mild, while others are more likely to lead to pneumonia. They're usually spread through direct contact with an infected person.

There is no specific treatment for the new virus, and no vaccine to prevent it. The National Institutes of Health confirmed Tuesday they are in the "very preliminary stages" of research to develop a vaccine for the new virus, but declined to provide details.

The outbreak is coinciding with massive travel in and out of China in advance of the Lunar New Year on Jan. 25. On Wednesday, the World Health Organization will meet to discuss whether to declare the outbreak a global health emergency. Such a move would help guide countries on how they should respond, usually by offering financial and/or political support. It could also recommend against practices that could be detrimental to affected regions, such as travel and trade restrictions.

"One thing that we've seen in outbreaks in the past is countries try to put up travel bans or propose restrictive travel in an attempt to stop the spread of an outbreak," said Alexandra Phelan, an adjunct professor at Georgetown Law who works on policy issues related to infectious diseases.

North Korea, for example, has reportedly closed its border to foreign tourists until the current coronavirus outbreak is under control.

But, Phelan explained, such policies are ineffective because people still cross borders. "When you put travel bans in place, people don't go through the normal processes. You lose the opportunity to give people medical information, conduct appropriate screening or provide medical treatment," Phelan said.

Health officials don't know how easily the infection spreads between people. One infectious disease expert expressed concern that the illness could be transmitted through so-called super-spreaders — highly infectious patients with the ability to sicken dozens at once.

It's unclear whether the sickened health workers in China were all infected in the same place, but if so, "it just smacks of a super-spreader event," said Michael Osterholm, an international infectious disease expert at the University of Minnesota.

Osterholm said super-spreader cases occurred during two well-known coronavirus outbreaks: the SARS and the MERS epidemics. The 2003 SARS outbreak reached more than two dozen countries, sickening 8,098 people. Nearly 800 died.

"For those of us who dealt with SARS and MERS, it's like déjà vu all over again," Osterholm told NBC News. "When you see super-spreaders, you know you've got a problem."

There is no indication the patient in Washington state is a "super-spreader."

The majority of patients have been reported in or near the city of Wuhan, and linked to a food market with live animals. Since the strain was first reported by Chinese authorities in late December, the number of cases and their geographic spread has increased rapidly.

Severe cases have generally been limited to older adults with other health problems. But increasingly, Osterholm said, younger, otherwise healthy adults are falling ill. Indeed, Washington state said the resident who became ill had no evidence of underlying health conditions.