Chinese New Year Is About Much More Than Fireworks and Dragons For American Businesses 
 For American businesses, the dragons and fireworks are bad for the supply chain. (Photo by Zhuo ... [+] Zhongwei/Visual China Group via Getty Images)
Visual China Group via Getty ImagesThis Saturday, when more than a billion people in China will be celebrating the New Year while fireworks and dancing dragon parades take place in Chinese neighborhoods in the West, the companies that depend on China for their products will be holding their breath waiting for the festivities to end.
To Westerners, our new year’s celebration is very much about overindulging in whatever your preference is, watching a lit-up orb drop in the middle of Manhattan and singing an ancient Scottish tune that neither makes sense nor contains lyrics anybody can actually remember. The next day, there are hangovers, football and resolutions that are usually forgotten by sunset.
In China, the new year is very different. Revered as perhaps the most important holiday of the year, it is an event that can stretch to as long as two to three weeks by the time it’s finished. Most importantly to American companies who bring in merchandise from the country, business in China essentially shuts down for most of this period.
For as long as two or three weeks, factories close down, ports stop shipping, trains and trucks sit idle and the tens and tens of millions of Chinese workers who make the country’s economy function basically stop working.
The situation has lessened a bit over the past decade or two as China becomes more urbanized but it is still very much a time when a large percentage of the population – how large nobody really can say – leave their city jobs and homes and go back to the towns and villages where they are from and where much of their families still live. 
By the time all that travel, the family visits and the celebrations of the holiday itself are over, it can amount to weeks…weeks when exports and supply chains come to a grinding halt.
For many American and Western wholesalers, importers and retailers who have lived through this cycle for years, the workaround is to bring more product in before the holiday to cover the gap. That is easier for ongoing programs and staples, much less so for products that are just being introduced for the spring selling season and may not be ready to ship before the holiday. Same goes for seasonal merchandise for spring and summer which traditionally arrives at the wholesale level in the U.S. over the winter. It is a puzzle to time all of this right and make sure one is not sitting with too little inventory, or just as bad, too much inventory.
All of this is exacerbated by the ongoing trade war between China and the U.S. that is causing American importers to maintain different inventory levels as well as to look for new sources of supply, both in and out of China. Old working relationships are being turned upside down and these new arrangements may not go as smoothly the first few times through the holiday shutdown. 
The other wild card this year is the recent discovery of the Coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan, China, with the first confirmed case in America reported on Tuesday in Washington State. What, if any, effect this will have is a great unknown. 
If companies have done their planning well, most U.S. consumers will not notice any of this…nor will they care. As a country, we are used to full store shelves and overnight deliveries. And that’s mostly what happens. 
But if the supply chains were ever going to get eaten away during all of this, it would be this year. It is, after all, the year of the rat.