New Findings from King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology in the Area of Coronavirus Described [Spatiotemporal Clustering of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) Incidence in Saudi Arabia, 2012-2019]: RNA Viruses - Coronavirus 
 2020 JAN 21 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Disease Prevention Daily -- Investigators publish new report on RNA Viruses - Coronavirus. According to news reporting originating from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, by NewsRx correspondents, research stated, “Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus ( MERS-CoV) is a great public health concern globally. Although 83% of the globally confirmed cases have emerged in Saudi Arabia, the spatiotemporal clustering of MERS-CoV incidence has not been investigated.”

Financial supporters for this research include King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology, King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre.

Our news editors obtained a quote from the research from King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology, “This study analysed the spatiotemporal patterns and clusters of laboratory-confirmed MERS-CoV cases reported in Saudi Arabia between June 2012 and March 2019. Temporal, seasonal, spatial and spatiotemporal cluster analyses were performed using Kulldorff’s spatial scan statistics to determine the time period and geographical areas with the highest MERS-CoV infection risk. A strongly significant temporal cluster for MERS-CoV infection risk was identified between April 5 and May 24, 2014. Most MERS-CoV infections occurred during the spring season ( 41.88%), with April and May showing significant seasonal clusters. Wadi Addawasir showed a high-risk spatial cluster for MERS-CoV infection. The most likely high-risk MERS-CoV annual spatiotemporal clusters were identified for a group of cities ( n = 10) in Riyadh province between 2014 and 2016. A monthly spatiotemporal cluster included Jeddah, Makkah and Taif cities, with the most likely high-risk MERS-CoV infection cluster occurring between April and May 2014. Significant spatiotemporal clusters of MERS-CoV incidence were identified in Saudi Arabia. The findings are relevant to control the spread of the disease.”

According to the news editors, the research concluded: “This study provides preliminary risk assessments for the further investigation of the environmental risk factors associated with MERS-CoV clusters.”

For more information on this research see: Spatiotemporal Clustering of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) Incidence in Saudi Arabia, 2012-2019. International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, 2019;16(14):2520. International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health can be contacted at: Mdpi, St Alban-Anlage 66, Ch-4052 Basel, Switzerland.

The news editors report that additional information may be obtained by contacting S. Alahmadi, King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology, Pob 6086, Riyadh 11442, Saudi Arabia. Additional authors for this research include K. Al-Ahmadi and A. Al-Zahrani.

The direct object identifier (DOI) for that additional information is: https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph16142520. This DOI is a link to an online electronic document that is either free or for purchase, and can be your direct source for a journal article and its citation.


(Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world.)