Coronavirus precautions ramped up 
 A number of Australians have been tested for the deadly coronavirus but there are no confirmed cases, the federal health minister says.
A Brisbane man being tested for the virus was released from isolation on Tuesday.
He shows no ongoing symptoms and test results are expected in coming days, Queensland Health said.
Biosecurity measures have been ramped up for flights into the country from China, and the city of Wuhan in particular.
Wuhan, the sprawling capital of central China's Hubei province, is the epicentre of the coronavirus, which to date has led to four deaths from more than 200 cases.
The man who was placed in isolation at his home flew into Brisbane earlier in January after visiting family in Wuhan, where the virus broke out in December.
"A number of people have been tested in Australia and found to be negative," federal Heath Minister Greg Hunt told Sky News on Wednesday.
Australia receives three flights from Wuhan per week which would be monitored closely, he said.
"(Flights) will be met by biosecurity officers, information given to passengers and the biosecurity officers will be accompanied by health officers," Mr Hunt told the ABC.
"They do have the capacity because of the measures taken to bring people directly to hospital if that were required.
"But we expect that any passengers that do have issues will self-report because it's in their own interests but if not, then there are strong powers."
Chief Medical Officer Brendan Murphy has urged anyone who has come from Wuhan and develops flu-like symptoms to seek medical attention.
"The risks really at present remain particularly focused on people coming from that region of China, particularly the city of Wuhan," Prof Murphy told the ABC.
"That's why we have ramped up biosecurity measures meeting those three direct flights from Wuhan a week."
He said there is no evidence that the virus is present in Australia.
Health screenings will be ramped up at Australian airports after it was confirmed the virus can be spread from person to person.