Research from King Faisal University in the Area of Coronavirus Published (Some One Health based control strategies for the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus): RNA Viruses - Coronavirus 
 2019 DEC 12 (NewsRx) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Disease Prevention Daily -- A new study on coronavirus is now available. According to news originating from King Faisal University by NewsRx correspondents, research stated, “The Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) presents an ideal example for developing One Health concepts.”

Funders for this research include King Abdul-Aziz City for Science and Technology; MERS-CoV.

The news journalists obtained a quote from the research from King Faisal University: “Dromedary camels are the principal reservoir for the virus. Infected camels shed the virus in body secretions, particularly nasal discharges. MERS-CoV has the potential to remain active in the environment for some time under optimum conditions of temperature and humidity. This shedding sustains the virus in endemic communities and thus contact with camels is considered a major risk factor for human infection. Reducing virus shedding from camels will have a great positive impact on reducing the human risk of infection. Our main objective is to highlight the potential aspects of reducing virus shedding from camels to the environment, thereby reducing the possibility of human infection.”

According to the news reporters, the research concluded: “We will focus on the potential roles of camel markets, camel shows, importation, transportation and grazing in the amplification and shedding of the virus, providing some novel concepts for the control approaches for the MERS-CoV.”

For more information on this research see: Some One Health based control strategies for the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus. One Health, 2019,8. (One Health - https://www.journals.elsevier.com/one-health). The publisher for One Health is Elsevier.

A free version of this journal article is available at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.onehlt.2019.100102.

Our news editors report that additional information may be obtained by contacting Abdelmohsen Alnaeem, Department of Clinical Studies, College of Veterinary Medicine, King Faisal University, Al-Ahasa, Saudi Arabia. Additional authors for this research include Maged Gomaa Hemida.


(Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world.)