China says human transmission not ruled out in Wuhan coronavirus outbreak 
 Chinese health officials have revealed that some people who contracted the newly identified coronavirus in the central city of Wuhan had not visited the market where the virus was found – and said that human-to-human transmission had yet to be confirmed or ruled out.
In a statement on Wednesday, the Wuhan Health Commission said that of the 41 people who had tested positive for the new strain of pneumonia, a small number had not been to Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, where some of the other patients had been vendors, handlers or frequent customers.
One of the patients who said they had never visited the market was a woman whose husband worked there as a trader, who had the virus before she did. The couple were the only known family cluster case of the outbreak, the health commission said. No information was provided about other patients who had not visited the market.
The authority said it had not found cases of human-to-human transmission.


“Existing investigation found no clear human-to-human evidence,” the statement read. “The possibility of limited human-to-human transmission cannot be ruled out, but the risk of continued human-to-human transmission is low.”
Wuhan pneumonia: authorities allow Taiwan specialists to visit city
Wuhan authorities have collected environment samples from the seafood market, which has been closed since January 1, and found some that tested positive for the coronavirus. Preliminary investigations in other markets in the city had found no clues to the source of the outbreak, the commission said.
The statement came two days after the Thai Ministry of Public Health announced that a 61-year-old female tourist from Wuhan had tested positive for the new strain. The woman had not been to the seafood market but had visited other markets in the city.
The Wuhan health authority said that people who had had close contact with the tourist had been traced and put under medical observation, and that none had shown any “abnormal symptoms”.


Despite the absence of clear evidence of human-to-human transmission and lack of infections reported among health care workers, the World Health Organisation urged for further investigation into possible modes of transmission, because of the dangers of the potential human-to-human spread of respiratory illnesses.
“It can be difficult to determine if they are ill due to exposure to a common source of infection, or because one person passed the illness to the other,” the organisation said in a statement.
The city of Wuhan, which has a population of 11 million and is a major transport hub, has reported 41 people who have tested positive for the new coronavirus. One of them, a 61-year-old man who was a regular visitor to the Huanan market, has since died.
Wuhan pneumonia ‘bears close similarity to Sars’, analysis finds
Most of the people diagnosed were middle-aged or elderly and male, the Wuhan health authority said. Six of the 41 were still being treated as severe cases, while seven had been cured and discharged.
More than 760 people who had been in close contact with those patients had been put under medical investigation, with 187 having been removed from quarantine by Tuesday after showing no symptoms for two weeks, the authority said.
In Hong Kong, 71 people who had been to Wuhan and shown symptoms of fever, coughing or pneumonia had been reported by Tuesday. Sixty of them had been discharged from hospital and the rest were stable, the city’s health authorities said.

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

More from South China Morning Post:China reports first death in new pneumonia outbreakWuhan pneumonia: Thailand confirms first case of virus outside ChinaWuhan pneumonia: World Health Organisation links China virus outbreak to single seafood market in Wuhan and says it’s not spreadingWuhan pneumonia: Asia battens down for Lunar New Year rushFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.