Hospitals told to prepare for cases of fatal virus from China 
 UK hospital have been told to prepare for cases of a mystery virus that has caused a death in China.

Forty-one people in the city of Wuhan have received a preliminary diagnosis of a novel coronavirus, a family of viruses that can cause both the common cold and more serious diseases with one fatality

The World Health Organisation (WHO) has now told hospitals worldwide to prepare for cases outside China.

A 61-year-old man with severe underlying conditions died from the coronavirus on Saturday. A case has now been detected in Thailand.

While preliminary investigations indicate that most of the patients had worked at or visited a particular seafood wholesale market, one woman may have contracted the virus from her husband, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission said in a public notice.

The commission said the husband, who fell ill first, worked at the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market. Meanwhile, the wife said she has not had any exposure to the market.

It is possible that the husband brought home food from the market that then infected his wife, said a Hong Kong health official. But because the wife did not exhibit symptoms until days after her husband, it is also possible that he infected her.

Chuang Shuk-kwan and other Hong Kong health officials spoke following a trip to Wuhan, where mainland Chinese authorities briefed them on the outbreak.

The threat of human-to-human transmission remains low, she said, as hundreds of people, including medical professionals, have been in close contact with infected individuals and have not been infected themselves.

She echoed the assertion from Wuhan authorities that there remains no definitive evidence of human-to-human transmission.

The outbreak in Wuhan has raised the spectre of Sars, or severe acute respiratory syndrome.

Sars is a type of coronavirus that first struck southern China in late 2002. It then spread to more than two dozen countries, killing nearly 800 people.