Chinese officials say possibility that new virus could spread between humans cannot be ruled out 
 Security guards stand in front of the closed Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, in Wuhan, China, on Jan. 11, 2020.
 NOEL CELIS/AFP/Getty Images
 
   The possibility that a new virus in central China could spread between humans cannot be ruled out, though the risk of transmission at the moment appears to be low, Chinese officials said Wednesday.
 Forty-one people in the city of Wuhan have received a preliminary diagnosis of a novel coronavirus, a family of viruses that can cause both the common cold and more serious diseases. A 61-year-old man with severe underlying conditions died from the coronavirus on Saturday.
 While preliminary investigations indicate that most of the patients had worked at or visited a particular seafood wholesale market, one woman may have contracted the virus from her husband, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission said in a public notice.
      Story continues below advertisement
  
 
 
 
 
 
 The commission said the husband, who fell ill first, worked at the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market. Meanwhile, the wife said she hasn’t had any exposure to the market.
 It’s possible that the husband brought home food from the market that then infected his wife, Hong Kong health official Chuang Shuk-kwan said at a news briefing. But because the wife did not exhibit symptoms until days after her husband, it’s also possible that he infected her.
  
 Chuang and other Hong Kong health officials spoke to reporters Wednesday following a trip to Wuhan, where mainland Chinese authorities briefed them on the outbreak.
  
 The threat of human-to-human transmission remains low, Chuang said, as hundreds of people, including medical professionals, have been in close contact with infected individuals and have not been infected themselves.
 She echoed Wuhan authorities’ assertion that there remains no definitive evidence of human-to-human transmission.
 The outbreak in Wuhan has raised the spectre of SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome. SARS is a type of coronavirus that first struck southern China in late 2002. It then spread to more than two dozen countries, killing nearly 800 people.
 The U.S. State Department warned Americans in China about the outbreak, with a notice referring to an alert by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention urging citizens travelling to Wuhan to avoid contact with animals, animal markets or animal products, among other precautions.
       Story continues below advertisement
  
 
 
 
 
 
 It also asked citizens those who had visited Wuhan and feel sick to seek medical care.
 With files from Reuters
 Our Morning Update and Evening Update newsletters are written by Globe editors, giving you a concise summary of the day’s most important headlines. Sign up today.