Asian stocks revisit declines amid Wuhan virus concern 
 SYDNEY (BLOOMBERG) - Asian stocks resumed declines and US equity futures edged lower on Thursday (Jan 23) amid ongoing efforts to control the widening coronavirus outbreak. The yen strengthened and Treasuries ticked up.

Modest risk aversion returned to markets Thursday as Japanese stocks opened lower along with those in South Korea and Australia. The Chinese city at the center of the outbreak suspended outbound flights and rail service, as the country ramps up efforts to contain the illness. Thursday is the final day of trading for mainland Chinese equities before the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday.

Japan's Topix index retreated 0.5 per cent while South Korea's Kospi index declined 0.5 per cent and Australia's S&P/ASX 200 Index dipped 0.4 per cent.

Futures on the S&P 500 Index slipped 0.1 per cent as of 9:01am in Tokyo.

In a volatile session, the S&P 500 Index ended flat on Wednesday as gains in technology shares and positive earnings reports offset concern about the virus.

With global equities still close to record highs, investors are on high alert for any developments that could derail the momentum. Caution has returned this week on concerns the coronavirus that has already killed at least 17 people could turn into a global pandemic.

"Markets have gotten a little bit ahead of themselves and they have probably gotten a little bit complacent," Burns McKinney, portfolio manager at Allianz Global Investors, told Bloomberg TV in New York. "We have seen policy makers this time move quickly and take it very seriously."

Meanwhile, the European Central Bank later decides on policy when its two-day meeting concludes, followed by a press conference with President Christine Lagarde. The pound climbed 0.7 per cent to US$1.3144 after UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson's Brexit deal cleared its final hurdle in Parliament.

Elsewhere, oil extended declines on concern the deadly virus will curb energy demand if the crisis worsens. The Australian dollar was steady ahead of jobs data. West Texas Intermediate crude dropped 1.4 per cent to US$55.96 a barrel.

Gold added 0.2 per cent to US$1,561.37 an ounce.