Government warned NZ needs to take a precautionary approach to coronavirus 
 The Government is being warned not to cross its fingers and just hope deadly coronavirus doesn't arrive in New Zealand.

The National Party is urging the Government to take more proactive steps to ensure the outbreak does not spread here and to give Kiwis confidence.

Meanwhile, an infectious disease expert says New Zealand should now be taking a "very precautionary approach".

This week the Ministry of Health confirmed it was following recommendations by the World Health Organisation and no screening precautions had been put in place.

It was keeping a close watch on developments and had been in frequent communication with the health and border sector to give advice.

But the National Party is calling on the Government to make the coronavirus a specific notifiable disease; ask health questions on arrival about travel history and any symptoms for those who have travelled from affected areas; heightened health surveillance at international airports with appropriate equipment and staff and ensure all District Health Boards have outbreak protocols in place and sufficient protective equipment on hand.

"Their approach seem to be crossing their fingers and hoping that it doesn't arrive. That's not good enough."

Although the Government was following advice from WHO he said: "I am not confident the WHO are ahead of the curve on this or nimble enough to manage the risk appropriately."

He said examples included the outdated travellers advice on the WHO website and the revelation of  higher numbers of reported cases.

The prudent Government response would be to provide information to passengers arriving from affected countries and to screen visitors for early symptoms, which were strategies that had been introduced in Australia, America and many Asian countries, he said.

"Given Chinese New Year celebrations are nearly upon us, large numbers of expected international visitors, combined with large gatherings, increases the risk of the virus arriving in New Zealand and spreading."

University of Otago professor of public health Michael Baker said the Ministry of Health should be taking more precautions.

The viral illness has so far infected more than 400 people and killed at least 17 people.

The World Health Organisation has gathered a group of independent experts to advise whether the outbreak should be declared a global emergency.

Chinese state media are reporting the city of Wuhan is shutting down outbound flights and trains and people are being urged not to leave the city in an attempt to try to contain the deadly virus.

Baker said it was a fast moving epidemic and data coming from China was outdated, which was worrying.

"We can not be reassured by any numbers we see this point. They tell us what happened a while ago ... It might be weeks before we know the full picture about how infectious and dangerous it is."

There were people coming to New Zealand from Wuhan via other airports and now was the time for New Zealand to act and not just "hope for the best", he said.

"We need to plan for some of the worst scenarios that could happen with this virus."

"Distance is no protection whatsoever for New Zealand."

All the machinery was already in place to make it notifiable very swiftly in New Zealand, he said.

Public health measures of case identification, isolation and quarantine stopped SARS and could stop this virus, he said.

However, it was labour intensive and would be a logistical and technical challenge that required mobile health resources .

Health Minister David Clark was approached for comment but is currently at a Labour Party caucus retreat and questions were directed to the Ministry.