PMA concerned over outbreak of corona virus in China 
 PMA concerned over outbreak of corona virus in China

LAHORE:The Pakistan Medical Association (Centre) is very much concerned over the outbreak of corona virus in China particularly in Wuhan (Hubei, province. Due to the fatal virus death toll in China rose to six and the number of cases jumped to almost 300.
In a press statement issued here on Wednesday, PMA (Centre) Secretary General Dr SM Qaisar Sajjad said that health authorities in China earlier had said there was no obvious evidence of person-to-person transmission and animals were suspected to be the source of transmission of the virus but now fears of a bigger outbreak rose after a prominent expert from China's National Health Commission confirmed that the virus could be transmitted among people. W.H.O has warned about the eruption of more cases both in China and other countries.
“There is a big number of Pakistani students and businessmen along with so many Chinese coming to Pakistan every day, so we are more at risk of getting corona virus through human contact. PMA strongly suggests the government install thermal scanners at our international airports to scan the passengers arriving from high-risk countries particularly from China, Bangkok and Thailand,” the PMA said.
KEMU: Punjab Specialised Healthcare and Medical Education Secretary Barrister Nabeel Ahmed Awan visited King Edward Medical University. He discussed development projects with the deans, members of the Academic Council and others.
KEMU Vice-Chancellor Professor Khalid Masud Gondal briefed the secretary about the ongoing research programs, international collaborations and national and international contributions of the university.
Barrister Nabeel Ahmad Awan addressing the members of the Academic Council said, "I am delighted to come to my alma mater. It is an honour for me to address King Edward Medical University's faculty and the academic council.” He appreciated the renovation of the 160-year-old historical Patiala Block. He said that graduates of King Edward Medical University were rendering valuable services both nationally and internationally. He assured the VC of his full support and academic patronage to the members Academic Council. The VC expressed his gratitude to the Punjab government for release of funds for timely completion of the girls hostel and King Edward Medical University new campus project. Specialized Healthcare and Medical Education Secretary Barrister Nabeel Ahmed Awan also planted a tree to promote the Green Pakistan vision of the prime minister.