When you should be worried about the Wuhan coronavirus, which has killed at least 17 people 
 The Wuhan coronavirus is mysterious, deadly, and circling the globe.

As of Wednesday, China said that 17 people had been killed by the virus, which was first reported in December.

The coronavirus (named 2019-nCoV) is part of the same family as many common flu strains, as well as SARS and MERS, but this virus is creating a buzz because it has never before been seen in humans. Scientists suspect it might've originated in bats, and first infected humans in a Chinese animal market in the city of Wuhan.

It's now being transmitted from person to person via close contact.

Often, initial symptoms are remarkably flu and pneumonia-like, and it's impossible to know whether an illness is the Wuhan coronavirus or another viral respiratory illness without laboratory testing.

"The average lay person in the US does not need to be particularly alarmed at this point," Dr. Eric Toner, a senior scientist at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, told Insider. "There's essentially no risk to anybody in the U S right now if they have not traveled to China in the last couple of weeks, or been in close contact with someone who is sick who has traveled to China in the last couple of weeks."

Toner said there are a couple clear indicators to help you decide when to become more vigilant about catching the new virus.

"The first way to know is by whether you have contact with Wuhan or other parts of China where the disease appears to be spreading," he said. "We're not 100% sure about the spectrum of illness caused by this disease, but it appears that some people have very mild illnesses, just typical cold symptoms. Others have been critically ill."

In the US, the first case of a 2019-nCoV was reported in a man in his 30s from Washington state (who'd recently been to Wuhan) on Tuesday. His samples had to be sent off to the US Centers for Disease Control (CDC) for testing and confirmation.

Health officials stressed he is recovering well from the virus, for which there is no treatment or vaccine. His illness was mild (without fever), and he is back in good health.

"The people who are critically ill, and the people who have died, are predominantly people with pretty significant underlying health problems, and the elderly," Toner said. "The short answer is, if you're in China and you have this illness, there is no way to tell other than by testing."

In an effort to prevent more sick people with the novel coronavirus from coming in to the US in the first place, all planes coming in from Wuhan will be routed to five of the nation's largest airports, where passengers will answer questions about whether they've been to markets in China and get their temperatures scanned with thermal forehead thermometers.

If no red flags emerge during the screening, the travelers can then proceed to customs, toting an informational card that they can give to their doctor in case they get sick later.

The airport screening system will not be perfect, though, especially because the coronavirus can incubate for one to two weeks in a person, before they start showing any signs of illness.

"This is an evolving situation and again we do expect additional cases in the United States and globally," Nancy Messonnier, director of the CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, told reporters on a call Tuesday.

One of the best ways to protect yourself from this virus, like any virus, is to practice good hand washing with soap and warm water, and keep at least six feet away from anyone who's sick or coughing. (If you have to take care of someone who's sick, wear a respirator.)