ASX to drop from record high as investors cash out amid China virus outbreak 
 Australian shares have dropped from their record highs as investors locked in recent gains amid concerns about China's deadly virus outbreak spreading beyond its borders.

By 1:30pm (AEDT), the ASX 200 had fallen 0.6 per cent to 7,088 points.

Losses were seen across the board, with energy and industrial stocks leading the falls.

"It's still the best month we've had in more than eight years and the best start we've had to a new year since the mid-1980s," said Steven Daghlian, a market analyst at CommSec.

"So, it is bound to happen that eventually we see the market pull back a bit."

Oil prices slumped on worries of excess global supply, which led to shares of oil and gas companies Worley and Santos dropping by about 2.5 per cent at their lowest point.

Engineering contractors CIMIC Group and Downer EDI also dragged the market down, losing as much as 20.5 per cent and 26.3 per cent respectively.

Sydney-based CIMIC said it was planning to exit the Middle East with the sale of its stake in BIC Contracting and expected to take a one-off charge of $1.8 billion, pushing its shares to its lowest value in more than three years.

Downer downgraded its annual profit guidance from $365 million to $300 million due to underperforming projects.

Australia's most expensive stock, biotech firm CSL, also weighed on the market as its share price dipped 0.8 per cent to $306.15.

Westpac shares fell 0.4 per cent despite its appointment of new chairman John McFarlane — to help rebuild the bank's reputation amid a money laundering scandal.

The Australian dollar lifted to 68.75 US cents after the unemployment rate fell unexpectedly in December.

This was despite a positive lead from Wall Street, which traded at their highest levels ever — before pulling back sharply in the final hour of trade.

The industrial-skewed Dow Jones index fell by 10 points (practically flat) to 29,186. It had lifted by as much as 120 points earlier in the session.

The benchmark S&P 500 was largely unchanged, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq lifted by 0.1 per cent.

US investors initially shrugged off their contagion fears as technology giants like IBM reported a stronger-than-expected profit, which led to its share price jumping 3.1 per cent.

On the flipside, video streaming giant Netflix warned investors of tougher conditions in the months ahead and its share price plunged by 3.9 per cent.

"Certainly, the market is spooked by it [the coronavirus infections]," said Phil Blancato, chief executive of Ladenburg Thalmann Asset Management.

"But when markets are overvalued, like they are right now, any small hint of concern will send the market into a volatile moment."