Flight from coronavirus epicentre arrives in Sydney 
 A flight from the epicentre of China's deadly coronavirus outbreak has arrived in Sydney, where passengers were screened individually for symptoms of the highly contagious bug.

Australian authorities took no chances when China Eastern flight 749 from Wuhan touched down just after 11am EDT, stationing biosecurity officers and border security staff at the terminal to interview passengers.

Four hours after the flight took off, Chinese officials made a bombshell announcement the city of 11 million people was being locked down in a bid to contain the virus, which has already killed 17 people and put hundreds more in hospital.

Bus, subway, ferry and long-distance passenger transportation networks will be suspended from 10am local time (1pm EDT), and the airport and train stations will be closed to outgoing passengers, state TV said.

Sydney is the only Australian city with direct flights to Wuhan.

The services, which were launched in 2017, run three times a week.

Sydney father-of-two Kevin Ouyand returned on the flight after spending one night in Wuhan where he said he wore a mask the whole time.

The 40-year-old said he was worried about being in Wuhan as the situation was "very serious".

He said all passengers on board flight CES749 had their temperature tested and everyone, including the flight crew, wore masks.

Mr Ouyand said he will continue wearing his mask at home for the next 10 days.

"I need to protect my family members," he said.

One man who was at Sydney Airport to pick up his girlfriend, who was on the flight, said she was "very lucky" to have got out.

Yesterday, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Australia's Chief Medical Officer, Professor Brendan Murphy, had advised him the risk of coronavirus transmission in Australia remained low, but that the "situation is evolving".

Hospitals in Wuhan are reportedly dealing with huge numbers of sick patients, and yesterday the local government issued an order for everybody to wear masks in public.

The order to shutdown Wuhan came the day before Chinese New Year.

Dr Jeremy McAnulty, the executive director of health protection at NSW Health, said the coronavirus seemed to be less infectious than the SARS outbreak that killed more than 700 people in 2003.

"At the present we believe the risk of transmission of the infection, should it occur in New South Wales is probably pretty low," he said.

"The situation is evolving from day to day there are no cases in New South Wales identified.

"But we're preparing that the health system, GPs, emergency departments and so on should cases occur in New South Wales."