Brit, 25, feared drowned in Ibiza after he was ‘swept out to sea’ by monster waves during Storm Gloria is pictured 
 THIS is the missing British man feared drowned in Ibiza after he was "swept out to sea" during the violent Storm Gloria that battered Spain yesterday.

Ben Garland, 25, from Bradford-on-Avon, has been missing since yesterday when he went on a motorcycle ride around the island.

9

 Ben Garland disappeared after going on a motorcycle tour of the islandCredit: Solarpix
9

 Ben vanished in the Portinatx area of ​​the municipality of Sant Joan de LabritjaCredit: Solarpix
9

 Rescue workers search for the missing Brit on Ibiza's rocky coast
Fears that he has been swept into the sea were growing today after the motorcycle was found abandoned but there was still no sign of Ben.

He is believed to be one of the crew of a boat which had earlier docked in the port of Ibiza.

The alert was raised by the boat's captain who called cops when Ben did not return as promised.

Worried friends of Ben have appealed on social media for anyone who may have seen him.

A land and sea search carried out by the Civil Guard, Civil Protection, local Police, and Civil Guard has been called off for the night.

A spokesman for a regional government-run emergency services coordination centre said: “Tomorrow morning first thing the search operations for the missing three people who disappeared during the storm will be restarted.”

Kirk Garland wrote on Facebook earlier today: “My nephew Ben Garland has been missing for over 18 hours.

“Please everybody pray for him to be found safe and well.”

Storm Gloria has battered the northern part of Ibiza, sparking massive swells that cut off all maritime links to the island.

On Monday, a young man disappeared while canyoning in the torrent of Na Mora, in an area of the Serra de Tramuntana on Majorca.

9


9

 Spain and its islands have been battered by monster 50ft wavesCredit: Splash News
9

 Ben is thought to have been part of a crew of a boat docked in the portCredit: Solarpix
The shocking weather front has left at least four dead in Spain after unleashing winds, snow storms, freezing temperatures and mountainous seas along the Mediterranean coast.

Hundreds of thousands of people in the north of the country and now without power in the wake of the winter storm which coated roads near Benidorm in snow.

The north-east and the Balearic Islands are now on high alert as forecasters predict even more gales, heavy rain and icy conditions.

A wave nearly 50ft high and described as record-high was recorded off the holiday island of Menorca at 1pm local time on Tuesday.

While the port authorities estimated towering waves of nearly 28ft hit Valencia - which they revealed was also a record.

Nine provinces are still on orange or yellow alert because of huge waves and even avalanches.

STEAK  JEEZ
 'Disgusting' Subway worker caught 'scratching his a**e' behind the counter 

WORLD WAR FLU
 Deadly coronavirus could ALREADY be in UK after killing 17  infecting 10,000 

FINAL CALL
 Heartbreaking last words of boy, 17, to mum before being decapitated in gang hit 

Exclusive


PEN PAL FROM HELL
 Jeremy Bamber sent me hundreds of letters from prison… I know he's guilty 

VILE TRADE
 Celeb breeder cut bulldog puppies' ears to make them 'cuter' for Little Mix star 

OPEN BORDER
 Passengers from coronavirus ground zero let into Britain with NO checks 







Gloria has been battering Spain since Sunday.

Parts of the country had already been hit by blizzards and ice.

Four people were confirmed dead before the waves struck yesterday and doubled the death toll.

They included a 43-year-old engineer who was killed on Sunday in front of his wife and two kids.

He was hit by an out-of-control van as he tried to put snow chains on his tyres near a ski resort in the northern province of Leon.

A 54-year-old homeless Romanian woman died overnight in the Costa Blanca resort of Gandia on Sunday from hypothermia.

A man, 63, died after being hit by tiles from a roof in the village of Pedro Bernardo near the cathedral city of Avila.

And a 71-year-old man died from hypothermia in Moixent in the province of Valencia.

Gloria struck after flash floods in October killed eight people, including two cousins swept away by a wave in Cala d’Or in Majorca.

9

 Ben is among scores missing amid fears he was swept away after his boat docked on the island of IbizaCredit: Solarpix
9

 Waves crash into the harbour wall in Manacor, MajorcaCredit: Splash News


9

 Nine provinces are still on orange or yellow alert because of huge wavesCredit: Splash News



Four dead and six missing in as Spain Storm Gloria causes huge waves and floods that devastate tourist towns