How coronavirus got its name: All you need to know about deadly outbreak in China 
 An outbreak of a new coronavirus that began in the central Chinese city of Wuhan has killed 17 and infected nearly 600 people globally.

China has suspended all public transport, including flights in and out of Wuhan, the epicentre of the coronavirus as the confirmed cases climbed to 571 mostly from the city. Global health authorities fear the transmission rate will accelerate as hundreds of millions of Chinese travel at home and abroad during the Lunar New Year holiday.

But how did coronavirus, which is spreading in China and beyond, got its name?

When viewed under a microscope, coronaviruses appear to have a crown-like structure. And in Latin, word 'corona' means 'crown'. This is why the virus is reffered to as coronavirus.

The coronavirus family has many types that affect people. Some cause the common cold while others originating in bats, camels and other animals have evolved into more severe illnesses such as SARS severe acute respiratory syndrome or MERS Middle East respiratory syndrome.

READ | Coronaviruses and the new Chinese killer strain

Shortness of breath, chills and body aches are associated with more dangerous kinds of coronavirus, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In serious cases, the virus can cause pneumonia.

What is the current situation

The death toll from the new coronavirus outbreak in China has risen to 17 with confirmed infection cases sharply rising to 571, even as the cases of the deadly pneumonia were reported from US, Hong Kong, Macao and Mexico.

Thailand reported four cases, and South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and the United States one each. Patients in these cases were either residents of Wuhan or recent visitors to the city.

Have the authorities managed to trace the origin

Some experts say the virus may not be as deadly as other coronaviruses such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which killed nearly 800 people during a 2002-2003 outbreak also originating from China.

What is being done to manage the situation: There is no vaccine for the new virus, which China says is mutating. Symptoms include fever, cough and difficulty in breathing.

READ | 9000 passengers from 43 flights screened for novel coronavirus, no cases found: Health Ministry

While the WHO has yet to recommend trade or travel restrictions, some Chinese travel booking platforms and airlines have offered free cancellations for Wuhan trips.

Beyond Wuhan, some Chinese have begun cancelling travel plans for the Lunar New Year and avoiding public areas like cinemas and shopping centres. Companies are handing out masks and warning staff to avoid Wuhan.

Shanghai's Disneyland will waive some rescheduling fees for customers who change travel plans. Hong Kong's Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd will let passengers to Wuhan change or cancel flights without charge through February 15 and permit cabin crew to wear masks on flights to the mainland

What is the impact on global markets?

Asian shares and US stocks fell on Thursday as investors remained anxious about the spread of a new flu-like virus in China just as millions prepared to travel for the Lunar New Year.

READ | New virus in China: Health ministry seeks info on Indian visa applicants from MEA

TREATMENT? There is a test to identify the virus, but no vaccine to prevent an infection. Patients with the virus have been isolated in hospitals or homes to prevent spreading it. The symptoms are treated with pain and fever medication, and people are advised to drink plenty of liquids and rest while they recover.

Also read | Wuhan in China shuts down transport as global alarm mounts over coronavirus outbreak

Also read | Novel coronavirus outbreak: 7 Indian airports to thermal screen passengers flying in from China