China coronavirus: Hong Kong widens criteria for suspected cases after second patient confirmed, as MTR cancels Wuhan train ticket sales 
 Hong Kong will tighten monitoring of the Wuhan coronavirus and tell doctors to report suspected patients who show just one symptom, rather than looking for a combination of signs.

The change came after the second confirmed patient in the city was found to have had only a marginal fever, and no other telltale symptoms, when he went to hospital.

The government made the announcement as three people who had close contact with the two confirmed patients in the city were in quarantine, and set to be sent to a holiday camp for isolation.

Meanwhile, local rail operator the MTR Corporation stopped selling high-speed train tickets to and from Wuhan, the mainland city where the outbreak began. Mainland rail companies, which run two trains between the cities each day, will continue normal service, even though the departure halls of Wuhan railway stations are closed.

Hong Kong reported its first two cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, as the death toll in mainland China hit 17. The virus has also spread to other countries, including Thailand, Japan and South Korea.

The first local patient was a mainland tourist, 39, who arrived at the high-speed railway station in West Kowloon on Tuesday. The second was a 56-year-old Hong Kong man who had visited Wuhan.

Under previous guidelines, medical practitioners only needed to report suspected cases to the authorities if patients had a fever as well as symptoms of respiratory illness, and had either visited a mainland hospital or Wuhan, or been in close contact with a patient confirmed to have the virus.

But on Thursday officials said medics would need to report patients who have either fever or respiratory symptoms, rather than a combination. The other criteria remained unchanged.

The mechanism was revised as Dr Wong Ka-hing, controller of the Centre for Health Protection, said the second local patient did not initially show both sets of symptoms.

The man went to Wuhan alone on January 10 and flew to Shenzhen, the mainland city bordering Hong Kong, by plane on January 19. He returned to Hong Kong the same day by train.

Dr Wong said the patient reported that, the day before he returned to Hong Kong, he had a fever but no symptoms of respiratory illness.

Dr Chung Kin-lai, the Hospital Authority’s director of quality and safety, said that when the man visited Prince of Wales Hospital on the day of his return, his body temperature was only 37.1 degrees Celsius. A person is considered to have a fever when their temperature hits 37.5 degrees. An X-ray scan also found no problems with his lungs.

Two days later, with a temperature of 37.4 degrees, the patient insisted on a virus test which came back positive. A source said an X-ray that day showed shadows on his lung.

After coming under attack by medical experts for not requiring passengers coming to the city from Wuhan by high-speed rail to fill in health declaration forms with their contact details, Dr Wong said the government was now considering doing so.

The second patient lives with his wife at the Oceanaire residence in Ma On Shan.

On Thursday morning, cleaners there were disinfecting the driveway, but residents criticised the management and government for not being transparent enough.

One resident, who gave his name as Ngan, said there were still no signs inside the block warning people about the infection. There was no way, he said, to find out where the patient lived.

“Nothing was said. That’s not enough. I read everything on the news,” said Ngan, through a surgical mask. He added it was not until Thursday morning that he saw removable plastic sheets covering lift buttons, used for regular disinfection.

Another resident, Cecilia Law, said she was worried, too, not knowing where the person lived. She sprayed her hands and her son’s hands with sanitiser as she spoke.