Health care system prepared for Wuhan coronavirus, but 'be vigilant': B.C.'s Provincial Health Officer 
 VANCOUVER (NEWS 1130) — We shouldn’t be overly concerned, but we should be vigilant, according to B.C.’s Provincial Health Officer, as the international death toll for Wuhan coronavirus rises to 17.

Dr. Bonnie Henry says it wouldn’t be a surprise if the virus from China made it to the province, but she insists our health care system is prepared.

“As long as we’re aware of it, people are open about it, they tell their health care provider about travel, and then we know that we have the resources in place to safely assess and care for people,” Henry tells NEWS 1130.

Henry, who was on the front lines of the SARS outbreak in Toronto in 2003, says this coronavirus appears to be less serious than that illness. She says much has improved since then, especially when it comes to China sharing information so we can prepare.

“This virus is new and that’s something that always makes us stand up and take notice, but we also know the Chinese government is very actively searching for cases, and they’re people very transparent,” she explains, adding the virus can be detected in British Columbia. “If somebody does come with the virus, we’re able to safely test them and treat them.”

Henry says the virus seems to be causing relatively mild or moderate illness in most people.

“But certainly some severe illness and there have been some deaths, particularly with people with underlying health conditions like diabetes, and heart disease, and lung disease, so that’s very concerning,” she says, while explaining we tend to see the more severe cases first.

Henry acknowledges people might be travelling this time of the year because of Lunar New Year, but simple precautions go a long way, like covering your mouth when you cough and washing your hands regularly. While the virus is commonly transmitted human-to human, she adds the virus can be transmitted through animals as well.

On Wednesday, the World Health Organization called an emergency meeting. Officials from British Columbia reiterated the risk to the province is low, but extra measures will be put in place.

The first North American case of coronavirus was confirmed in Washington state Tuesday.

With files from Monika Gul and Hana Mae Nassar