'Lucky' passengers checked for coronavirus after escaping Wuhan on last flight to Sydney 
 One of the last flights out of the epidemic-hit Chinese city of Wuhan was met by biosecurity officials as it landed in Australia on Thursday, as a global effort to contain the coronavirus outbreak ramps up.

Mask-wearing passengers said they were questioned by health officials who briefed them on the symptoms of the novel coronavirus and handed out leaflets explaining how to respond if they noticed symptoms of the contagious disease.

There were no ill passengers on the flight into Sydney, Australia’s chief medical officer Professor Brendan Murphy said, but that doesn’t mean they couldn’t become unwell in the coming weeks.

“I’m pleased to report that no ill passengers were found on that flight,” he told reporters after the China Eastern Airlines flight from Wuhan arrived at Sydney Airport on Thursday.

“It is always possible ... there could be people incubating the virus on that plane today.”

Wuhan’s local government has now shut down all urban transport networks and suspended outgoing flights from the city of 11 million people.

The outbreak has killed 17 people and infected nearly 600, Chinese authorities say.

Passengers arriving in Sydney said everyone on the China Eastern Airlines flight was wearing a face mask.

“They suggested everyone wear their masks, and actually everyone [already] wear their masks ... even the flight crew,” said Kevin Ouyang, a 40-year-old father of two who was returning to his Sydney home after a business trip to China.

They were all given an information document about the virus.

One passenger told reporters he didn’t know Wuhan had gone into lockdown to stop the spread of the deathly virus.

“I feel kind of lucky,” he said at the airport.

Ouyang, who spent one night in Wuhan, said when the plane arrived in Sydney authorities came on board and sprayed “everywhere”.

Passengers were asked questions about their health and those who flagged concerns had their temperature taken.

Ouyang found out Wuhan had been placed into lockdown when he turned his phone on after landing.

“I was very surprised,” the 40-year-old told reporters.

Another passenger, who didn’t want to give his name, described the situation as “scary”.

But a woman who transited through Wuhan insisted she felt safe.

“I’m not really worried – I think they take an advanced approach to protect others,” she told reporters.

“I feel very safe. Everything is normal.”

The chief medical officer said passengers were told if they become unwell in the next few weeks they should contact a doctor and tell them they’ve travelled from Wuhan.

People could then be quickly isolated, tested and quarantined if necessary.

There are no confirmed cases of coronavirus in Australia yet.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison says information regarding the disease will be displayed at all major international airports and ports around Australia.

The team that checked passengers at Sydney Airport included doctors and nurses experienced in public health and infection control alongside virology experts from Westmead Hospital.

They planned to wear masks and gloves when examining anyone with symptoms, NSW Health protection executive director Jeremy McAnulty said on Wednesday.

He added that identifying potential carriers at the airport was “not foolproof by any means” because people who’ve been exposed to the virus may not display symptoms for days.

Canberra has updated its travel advice urging Australians to reconsider their need to travel to Wuhan.

“The Chinese authorities have put new measures in place to contain the spread of the coronavirus,” the federal government advice states.

“This includes wearing masks in public places and avoiding travel in and out of Wuhan.”

Health authorities in NSW confirmed on Thursday afternoon that five people had tested negative for the virus, while results were still pending on one other person.

There have been cases confirmed in Japan, Thailand and South Korea as well as China.