Macau confirms second patient infected with Wuhan virus 
 Macau confirmed its second case of the Chinese coronavirus infection on Thursday, as its tourism board cancelled all Lunar New Year celebrations, including a firework show and a parade.
The local government also rolled out a scheme to give residents and workers in the casino hub 10 face masks every 10 days for 8 patacas (US$1).
The development came a day after city leader Ho Iat-seng, who took office as chief executive last month, met Zhong Nanshan, one of China’s leading specialists on communicable diseases and a leader of the National Health Commission’s senior expert panel, to seek his advice on controlling the virus outbreak.
Hong Kong also confirmed its second case on Wednesday, while more than 571 cases have been confirmed in mainland China, with Wuhan in Hubei province being the epicentre of the outbreak. The virus has so far claimed at least 17 lives.

The second coronavirus patient in Macau, a 66-year-old male tourist, arrived in the city from Wuhan at 4pm on Wednesday. He was detected with a body temperature of 38.7 degrees Celsius during fever screening at the border checkpoint, and was immediately sent to Conde S. Januário Hospital for further medical investigation and treatment.
Death toll almost doubles in one day as Hong Kong reports its first two cases
He had a body temperature of 36 degrees when he was admitted to the hospital, and tested positive for the coronavirus.


“Four family members accompanying him were also sent to the hospital for medical investigations. His child was suffering from minor fever and was diagnosed with influenza,” Dr Lei Wai-seng of the hospital said. “They were all tested negative for the coronavirus.”
He added the family would be sent to Centro Clínico De Saúde Pública – Macau’s public health centre – for further quarantine later on Thursday. The centre was already accommodating six close contacts of the first confirmed patient, a 52-year-old Wuhan businesswoman, for quarantine.

Another four visitors to Macau from Wuhan, who were considered “high risk”, have tested negative and been quarantined. They will be allowed to go only if a second test conducted on them after 48 hours turns out negative, the authorities said.
Dr Cheong Tak-hong from the hospital said the first patient’s temperature had reduced to a normal level on Thursday morning and she had only suffered from a minor cough and diarrhoea, while the second male patient had not suffered from any shortness of breath or fever.

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.