Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison's Father Dies Aged 84 
 Prime Minister Scott Morrison talks to the media at a press conference in Melbourne, Australia on Dec. 12, 2019. (Photo by Daniel Pockett/Getty Images)

Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s father died a peaceful death late Wednesday at the age of 84.

The prime minister posted a heartfelt tribute to Facebook on Thursday afternoon, saying that he received news on Wednesday night that his father “passed away quietly and peacefully.”

“He lived a great life and was much loved,” Morrison wrote.

The prime minister’s father, John Morrison, served in the army, the NSW police force, and in the local community as a councilor and mayor.

“Dad lived a life of love, faith, duty, and service,” Morrison wrote, adding that his father served his church as an elder, youth worker, and in aged care. “Dad had a deep and committed Christian faith, which is one of his numerous legacies in my life.”

Morrison has referenced his father on multiple occasions since taking up the role of Prime Minister in August 2018, according to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (the ABC).

In his maiden speech to the Federal Parliament in February 2008, Morrison credited both his parents as having “laid the foundation for my life.”

“Together with my brother, Alan, they demonstrated through their actions their Christian faith and the value they placed on public and community service,” Morrison said at the time.

Former prime minister Julia Gillard posted a message on Twitter on Thursday afternoon, expressing condolences.

“My sincere condolences to @ScottMorrisonMP on the death of his father John,” she wrote. “Losing your dad is always hard, and even more so when you are serving as PM. My thoughts are with him and his family.”

In closing remarks on Facebook, Morrison expressed his gratitude to his father.

“Our family will miss him terribly, but we are extremely thankful for his great blessing in all of our lives. Love you, Dad, and well done good and faithful servant.”

Morrison spent the morning in a roundtable discussion with indigenous peak bodies on how to better ‘close the cap’ and continue to build stronger partnerships between the government and indigenous peoples “all around the country.”

Morrison also briefed the press on updates from the bushfire frontline and on China’s coronavirus outbreak.