Wuhan virus outbreak: Scoot cancels Wuhan flights until 26 January 
 Scoot to move operations from Changi Airport T2 to T1 in 2019

SINGAPORE — Budget airline Scoot has cancelled its flights to Wuhan following a complete lockdown of public transportation in the central Chinese city.

Scoot put up a notice on Thursday (23 January) stating that its Singapore to Wuhan return flights from 23 to 26 January will be cancelled.

“Affected customers booked on these flights will receive emails from Scoot with further information on refunds,” according to Scoot’s website.

On Thursday, Chinese authorities suspended all outbound public transport from Wuhan in an effort to prevent the spread of the virus.

Transportation modes including bus, subway, ferry were suspended from 10am local time, while the city’s airport and train stations were closed to outgoing passengers.

Currently, Scoot’s flights scheduled on 27 January and thereafter will continue to operate as scheduled. Customers who have booked flights before Thursday and wish to change their plans can contact the airline’s call centre or social media platforms to re-route to another destination within China, Hong Kong and Macau, or get a full refund.

The announcement comes a day after Yahoo News Singapore reported that Scoot flights were operating as per normal, despite the spread of the virus beyond China’s borders in the past few weeks. The coronavirus, which has since claimed 17 lives and infected more than 571 people in China, originated from Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province, as of Thursday.

Separately, Malaysia’s AirAsia has cancelled all flights to Wuhan until 28 January.

The outbreak has prompted Singapore Airlines (SIA), which doesn’t fly to Wuhan, to put in place measures to handle medical emergencies including potentially infectious diseases.

In a statement to Yahoo News Singapore on Wednesday, SIA said that unwell passengers would be attended to by medical authorities when the aircraft lands. Passenger or crew members who felt unwell and had travelled to China were “strongly advised to promptly seek medical attention, and report their travel history”, an SIA spokesperson said.

Inflight announcements regarding the virus will also be made on all flights to and from Singapore, it added.

Wuhan virus outbreak: Masks, sanitisers out of stock in pharmacies

Wuhan virus: MOH sets up taskforce and issues travel advisory; 3 more suspected cases isolated in S'pore

Wuhan virus outbreak: MOH to expand temperature screening at Changi Airport to all flights from China

Persons with pneumonia and have travelled to China to be isolated in S'pore