Coronavirus From China Spreads To Korea And Japan, Hits Travel Business As Death Toll Rises 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	People wearing face masks as they wait at Hankou railway station on January 22, 2020, in Wuhan, ... [+] China.
Photo by Xiaolu Chu/Getty ImagesBoth South and North Korea are going into emergency mode amid fears of the mysterious coronavirus spreading from China. In both Koreas, the travel industry is taking a hit.
South Korean e-commerce firm Interpark Corp. reported a sharp decline in reservations for overseas trips, notably to China, according to the Yonhap news agency.
With 130,000 Chinese tourists expected to visit South Korea for the Lunar New Year holiday, airports in the country were increasing surveillance of visitors arriving on international flights. Traffic from China was expected to be particularly heavy in the scenic island-province of Jeju, a popular destination for Chinese visitors.
More on Forbes: Public Health Experts Say Coronavirus Exposure May Be Wider Than China Admits
Chinese authorities appeared anxious to cooperate fully in issuing warnings about the illness and working with the World Health Organization, as well as with other countries after having been widely criticized for suppressing news about severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, after it originated in China in 2003. The coronavirus was first reported last month in the industrial city of Wuhan.
So far, Chinese authorities have reported at least 17 deaths from the disease among more than 540 diagnosed cases in China. South Korea and Japan have reported one case each—enough to warrant beefed-up staff at airports, but no reason to block flights from China or Chinese visitors.
In North Korea, however, the long border with China, from the Yalu River covering the western portion to the Tumen River in the east, was temporarily closed, according to North Korean tour operator Young Pioneer Tours. Rodong Sinmun, the official newspaper of the North's ruling party, reported “a new strain of coronavirus is fast spreading”—though, so far, no cases have been reported in North Korea.
More on Forbes: Global Stock Markets Fall Amid Growing Fears Over Deadly China Virus