UK police station closes after Chinese detainee displays flu-like symptoms 
 At least two British police stations have been closed after a Chinese detainee was found displaying "flu-like" symptoms.

Avon and Somerset Police said they shut the two stations in Bristol following the arrest of the man — who had recently returned from the city of Wuhan in China where the first cases of the deadly coronavirus disease were reported.

The force said they were advised by the NHS to close Patchway Police Centre where the man had been taken, along with Trinity Road Police Station, where officers involved in the arrest had travelled to.

Officers and members of police staff, as well as a member of the public, were ordered to stay in the building.

There were fears the detained man may have had contact with people who had recently travelled from the Wuhan area of China.

In a statement, the police force said: "At just before 7pm on Wednesday, January 22, staff at the custody unit at Patchway Police Centre became aware of a detainee displaying flu-like symptoms.

"There were initial concerns that the detainee, a Chinese national, may have had contact with people who had recently travelled from the Wuhan area of China.

"Following precautionary advice from the NHS and health practitioners, Patchway Police Centre was temporarily closed, along with Trinity Road Police Station in Bristol, where officers involved in the arrest had travelled to.

"As well as the officers and members of police staff, there was one member of the public at Trinity Road Police Station, who was asked to remain in the building as a precaution while we sought further advice.

"Following expert advice from Public Health England, it was established this was not a case of the much-publicised novel coronavirus and both stations were fully re-opened at just after midnight.

"The detainee has been given the appropriate medical attention and remains in custody at this time.

"All those involved in this incident have been given up-to-date advice from Public Health England and we'd like to thank the member of the public for their patience and understanding while we took this precautionary action.

"We'd like to assure our communities there is no risk to the public."

At least 17 people have died in China from the flu-like disease which was first reported last month, while more than 600 cases have been confirmed worldwide.