Ancient unknown viruses found locked in China glacier ice and a melt could unleash them – just like real-life Fortitude 
 ANCIENT viruses currently locked in a Chinese glacier could be unleashed upon us if climate change causes the ice to melt.

Viruses have resided in the Guliya ice cap on the northwestern Tibetan Plateau of China for 15,000 years so lots of them are unknown to modern science.

A recent investigation of two ice cores taken from the glacier revealed what they contained.

This included 28 virus groups that had never been seen before.

The researchers wrote in their study: "In a worst-case scenario, this ice melt [from climate change] could release pathogens into the environment."

This possibility is why scientists want to learn as much as possible about the viruses now so if they are unleashed into the world, we'll know how to deal with them.

Deadly viruses spreading into the environment from melting glaciers is reminiscent of the Sky Atlantic drama series Fortitude.

Although Fortitude is fictional, the study implies that it's technically possible for similar events to happen in real life so scientists want to be sure they know what they're dealing with.

The ice core samples used in the study were actually removed from the glacier in 1992 and 2015.

Unfortunately, this meant that older methods were used when collecting them and the outside of the cores became contaminated with modern day microbes.

The researchers cut through the ice cores with a band saw whilst located in a room kept at 23 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 5 degrees Celsius).

Their experiment found 33 different types of viruses and only five of these were known to modern science.

The research is also important because the viruses can teach us a lot about things like ancient environmental conditions.

It's important to put the trapped viruses in an archive in case climate change results in any knowledge of them being lost forever.

Modern day China is currently facing a new virus crisis.

The outbreak of coronavirus began in the city of Wuhan in China - which has since been put in lockdown after more than 600 people were infected globally.

A new study published in the China Science Bulletin earlier this week claimed that the new coronavirus shared a strain of a virus found in bats.

Previous deadly outbreaks of SARS and Ebola were also believed to have originated in the flying mammal.

Experts had thought the new virus wasn't capable of causing an epidemic as serious as those outbreaks because its genes were different.

But this research appeared to prove otherwise, while scientists scrabble to produce a vaccine - something that could take at least a year.

In other news, humans are risking living in an "empty world" stripped of its wildlife, a top UN boss has warned.

A shocking UN report revealed last year that humans are putting one million animal species at risk of extinction.

And, oldest crater on Earth has been precisely dated and scientists think the impact could have changed the world's climate.

What are your thoughts on this ancient virus issue? Let us know in the comments...

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online Tech & Science team? Email us at tech@the-sun.co.uk