Irish man in coronavirus epicentre 'holed up in flat' as it becomes 'ghost town' 
 An Irish teacher living in ground zero of the coronavirus outbreak in China has been holed up in his flat as the deadly SARS-like infection spreads.

Ben Kavanagh, from Co Kildare, hasn't left his home for "two or three days" as Wuhan, a major city of 11million, is essentially locked down with no flights or bus or train service.

A second Chinese city, Huanggang, has also been locked down to prevent the virus from spreading even further.

Mr Kavanagh, who is on a break from work due to the Lunar New Year holiday in China, said he will have to leave his home soon and venture out into the "ghost town" to stock up on food.

When he does, he will wear a surgical mask over his mouth and nose and swimming goggles over his eyes to protect himself from a virus that has killed at least 25 people so far.

Have you been affected by coronavirus? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.

Mr Kavanagh told RTE Radio’s Morning Ireland: “You are allowed out, but there are so many rumours and people are worried, it’s better not to.

Mr Kavanagh said there was a suggestion that the virus can spread through contact with the eyes and as a result people were wearing eye protection in addition to masks.

He added: “I have enough water for a few more days, but I will probably have to head out to the shops for food.”

The teacher plans to wear a mask over his face and swimming goggles over his eyes when he leaves his flat.

“I have no idea what to expect,” he said.

He said a dual carriageway near his home is normally very busy but is now quiet, and

Mr Kavanagh has heard that the price of some items at the supermarket, including celery, had tripled amid the panic in Wuhan.

A new strain of the SARS-like virus - believed to have originated at a live animal and seafood market in Wuhan - has so far killed 25 people and infected about 600 others, according to official figures.

But the number of cases could be much higher and there are fears that it could morph into a global pandemic as people infected with the virus travel by air and rail outside of China.

It is suspected that coronavirus emerged from illegally traded wildlife at a market, and one study by medical experts suggests it may have originated in snakes, with a link to bats.

Government medical adviser Zhong Nanshan had also identified badgers and rats as possible sources.

London Heathrow and airports around the world have introduced screening measures for passengers arriving from the affected region.

Wuhan was put on lockdown and residents were told not to leave the city in a bid to prevent the virus from spreading even further.

Flights were suspended, bus, train and ferry services were cancelled and roadblocks were set up on the outskirts of the city.

Some flights were still operating after a 10am deadline, however.

The Hankou railway station looked like a ghost town and toll booths had shut down, effectively cutting off road access.

There was panic as shoppers stormed a store that sells masks, cleared out supermarket shelves, queued for petrol and thronged into hospitals for checks.

Huanggang, a city just east of Wuhan, announced it would suspended public bus and train services at the end of the day on Thursday.

Health officials fear this new strain of coronavirus will spread rapidly as hundreds of millions of Chinese residents travel domestically and abroad for the Lunar New Year, which begins Saturday.

There are fears it is already spreading worldwide, with cases reported in the US, Japan, South Korea, Thailand and Taiwan.

Imperial College London said the number of cases is likely far higher than what has been reported in China.

It said it estimated a total of 4,000 cases in Wuhan alone as of January 18.

There is no vaccine for the virus, which can spread from human to human through respiratory transmission.

Symptoms include fever, difficulty in breathing and cough, similar to many other respiratory illnesses, and it can lead to pneumonia.

A World Health Organisation panel of experts met on Thursday to evaluate whether the outbreak constitutes an international emergency.

They were holding a second closed-door meeting after failing to reach a decision on Wednesday.