Inside the numbers: presidential impeachment hearings don't sink markets 
 Welcome to Bull Sheet, a no-BS newsletter on what’s moving markets. In this email, global finance and investing editor Bernhard Warner discusses the surprisingly benign market impact of impeachment hearings. What else would you like to see from us? This newsletter is supported by you, our readers. Write to bullsheet@fortune.com or reply to this email with your suggestions and feedback.



Note: Yesterday’s edition of Bull Sheet shared an incorrect subject line. The subject line should have read, “Why the global markets seem immune to the coronavirus contagion.” 



Good morning, Bull Sheeters. Today, I want to talk politics. Specifically, the I-word. 



The impeachment trial of President Trump may be a lead story in newspapers from London to Los Angeles—it’s getting decent TV ratings, too—but it’s barely moving the markets. 



This has been true for months. The global markets just don’t seem to get freaked out about America’s constitutional crises the way they do about other geopolitical risks. Investors seem far more preoccupied with coronavirus this morning. (The Asia markets are down as I type this.) Earlier this month it was the fear of war with Iran.



Historically, American presidential impeachments have had a mixed—lately, it’s been downright good—impact on markets. Paradoxically, when lawmakers rally to boot out of power the leader of the free world, investors tend to shrug it off. 



True, there’s not a lot of data to go on. But so far with the Trump affair, markets have not only survived the drama, they’ve actually rallied. And you know what? The same thing happened during the Clinton affair, as the chart below shows. (A big thanks to LPL Research for helping me put some of this data together). 



***



Another impeachment, another rally











As you can see, there was no longterm Nixon rally back in 1974. Soaring oil prices put an end to that. The Clinton saga in 1998-99 was a whole other story. The markets rallied longer and more dramatically during that matter, climbing 41.6% over the first six months, helped by the strong economy of the late ’90s and investors’ newfound love for tech and dot-com stocks. 



But the 12% rally on the S&P 500 since Sept. 24, 2019, the day House Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced the opening of a formal impeachment inquiry into Trump, ain’t shabby either.



I’m guessing Trump won’t be re-tweeting this particular chart.



Bernhard Warner@BernhardWarnerBernhard.Warner@Fortune.com



***