CORONAVIRUS LIVE: Violence breaks out in China as Wuhan quarantine sparks fights over food 
 The reports came as a THIRD Chinese city went into emergency lockdown in a bid to contain the killer virus. More than 20 MILLION Chinese residents are now banned from leaving their cities.
Supermarket shelves were emptied as panic spread across the city of 11 million people amid growing fears the emergency lockdown measures will spark shortages with supplies unable to get through. Tensions are already running high with the death toll from the outbreak of the flu-like virus standing at 25 and expected to rise.
More than 700 people are now known to be infected and authorities fear the spread of the virus is inevitable as hundreds of millions of Chinese travel at home and abroad during the week-long Lunar New Year holiday.
Videos emerging on social media show panic and fear much in evidence and violence amid panic buying in the shops.

Chinese face mask manufacturers have been forced to reopen factories that were shut for the national holiday to meet demand and quadruple wages for workers whose leave was cancelled.
Cao Jun, general manager of mask manufacturer Lanhine eastern China’s Ningbo city said: “From what I have heard, the mask shortage is much, much more severe than what the public knows.
“Almost all hospital workers nationwide are facing a huge shortage of masks, not just in Wuhan. That’s very terrible.”
Mr Cao said the firm’s clients are demanding a combined 200 million masks per day compared to its normal production rate of 400,000 a day.
SCROLL DOWN FOR CORONAVIRUS LIVE UPDATES

11.53am update: Third Chinese city on lockdown as panic grows over coronavirus spread
The Chinese city of Ezhou has been placed on lockdown alongside Wuhan and Huanggang.
The emergency measures include severe restrictions on movement to and from the cities.
11.41am update: Hong Kong halts rail services to stricken city
Hong kong has stopped high-speed train services to the the city Wuhan which it at the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak.
11.32am update: Hancock says true number of coronavirus cases will be far higher than China admits
Health Secretary Matt Hancock ha warned the true number of coronavirus cases is likely to be much higher than the Chinese admit – just hours after Imperial College London experts claimed 4,000 people were infected in Wuhan alone.
Mr Hancock said there were no confirmed cases so far on UK soil and insisted the country was well-equipped to deal with any cases that arose.
But he said Britain's Chief Medical Officer had raised the coronavirus threat level to the UK from “very low” to “low” and the Foreign Office was advising against all but essential travel to the Wuhan area.
11.12am update: Death toll rises to 25
10.43am update: WHO hits back at coronavirus critics
World Health Organisation chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has hit back after being accused of failing to act over coronavirus.
He tweeted: “The decision about whether or not to declare a public health emergency of international concern on new coronavirus is one I take extremely seriously, and one I am only prepared to make with appropriate consideration of all the evidence.”
10.30am update: Disinfectant trucks spray streets of Shanghai
Health chiefs in the Shanghai have deployed tankers carrying powerful disinfectant to spray they streets and pavements of the city amid growing panic of a coronavirus pandemic.
Footage posted on social media earlier today showed the trucks in action in residential areas of the city.