Second Chinese city goes into lockdown over coronavirus 
 Huanggang has become the second Chinese city to go into lockdown over the coronavirus outbreak that has killed 17 people and infected more than 630.

Health authorities in the city of around 7.5 million, which borders the city of Wuhan where the outbreak is centered, said they would suspend public bus and railway operations from midnight.

They also ordered indoor entertainment venues, including cinemas and internet cafes, to close and asked citizens not to leave the city other than under special circumstances.

Another nearby city, Ezhou, said on Thursday it had shut its train stations.

Huanggang had reported 12 cases of the coronavirus as of the end of Monday.

There are growing concerns that the flu-like infection might spread rapidly as hundreds of millions of Chinese people travel domestically and abroad during the week-long Lunar New Year holiday.

Of eight known cases of the virus worldwide, Thailand has confirmed four, while Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the United States have reported one each.

Residents of Wuhan scrambled to stock up on supplies on Thursday as authorities suspended transport links in and out of the city in an attempt to stop the spread of the coronavirus, which has raised fears of a global pandemic.

The virus first appeared in the central city of 11 million people last month and is suspected to have jumped to people from an animal in a market where animals were sold illegally.

The city’s government said it was suspending all buses, trains, subways, ferries and other long-distance transport as of 10 am local time (2am Irish time) in an effort to keep the virus from spreading. Flights out of the city were also being suspended.

The city made no mention of a ban on private vehicles leaving but one resident told Reuters she could not drive out of the city because guards were blocking the entrance to a highway she hoped to drive on. Authorities have advised residents not to leave the city.

Hugo Guo, a 22-year-old university student who returned to Wuhan for the holiday, said he was resigned to being confined to the city for now but would be keen to get back to his studies in Shanghai.

“I find it acceptable to have to stay at home, but I’m most worried about whether I’ll be able to return to school,” Mr Guo said.

Footage from state media posted on Twitter showed the city’s Hankou railway station nearly empty, its gates barred and the announcement on the suspension of transport posted prominently outside.

People were seen queuing at the station’s taxi rank but there did not appear to be many cabs operating.

Flight tracking data showed that some planes were still flying out of the city after 10 am, however.

“I’m one of the lucky ones since my flight wasn’t actually cancelled,” Sibusiso Sgwane, a Wuhan resident who boarded an Air China plane bound for the city of Shenzhen, said in a video message. “We’re advised to wear a mask at all times.”

Several Wuhan residents said people were rushing to stockpile supplies. Big supermarkets were teeming with people and many shelves for staples like meat, vegetables and instant noodles were bare, they said.

“Everyone is on a buying spree,” said one Weibo user, showing a picture of long queue at a checkout aisle.

People took to social media to complain about surging prices for vegetables and other groceries.

“No one will object to Wuhan being sealed but you need to let Wuhan’s residents be able to eat and live,” said another user of the Weibo social media platform.

Posted videos showed long queues at petrol stations. One resident said he had to wait for an hour before he could fuel up his car.

In Beijing, a group of passengers boarded one of the last scheduled flights into Wuhan. One, named Jane, said she was “very uneasy” given the situation but had to go back for her child.

Another passenger, who only identified himself by the surname Yang, said he was not scared to be travelling to Wuhan.

“I’m a brave man,” he said. “It’s not like it will be only me.”

Ireland’s Department of Health, relying on a previous assessment, described the risk of a case in Europe as low at present.

The Department of Foreign Affairs has advised Irish travellers that while the risk of contracting the disease in China remains low, their travel could be disrupted by increased quarantine and containment measures there.

It says the Irish Embassy in China will continue to monitor the situation. – Reuters