Coronavirus - THIRD Chinese city placed on lockdown as experts warn killer bug ‘nearly impossible to contain’ 
 CHINA'S government has put three cities on lockdown after the outbreak of the coronavirus has killed 17.

Nearly 20million people in Wuhan, Huanggang and Ezhou - all in the Hubei province - have been banned from travelling as experts fear the deadly virus is becoming impossible to contain.

Residents have have blasted authorities for waiting a month to put the city on lockdown.

Locals in Wuhan, which has a population of 11 million, have been told not to travel, to avoid crowds and minimise public gatherings despite Chinese New Year being two days away.

Latest figures suggest the number of coronavirus cases in China has risen to 616.

The virus could now be declared a global health crisis after cases of the mystery bug previously quadrupled in just four days.

Police, SWAT teams and paramilitary troops have been out on the streets patrolling the railway stations as authorities have banned travelling on subways and ferries.

The airport and train stations have been shut down to outgoing passengers travelling after 10am local time.

John Spencer, chair of Urban Warfare Studies at the US Military Academy Modern War Institute, said it is impossible to shut a city down.

He told Wired: “It would be nearly impossible to be effective, even if you threw the entire Chinese military at it.

“You’d have to have a coast guard, a military. It’s just not feasible to seal in a major city in the modern age. It wasn’t even feasible before.”

Xiao, 26, a primary school teacher in Wuhan, told The Guardian: "When I saw the news when I woke up, I felt like I was going to go crazy. This is a little too late now. The government’s measures are not enough."

Others criticised local authorities on the social media platform Weibo as #PrayforWuhan was trending.

One said: "It’s been a month since the first case was discovered and only now do they think of closing the city? This Wuhan emergency response is a little slow, right???"

Another added: "The government needs to address this. If things become too expensive, people will definitely panic and when people feel unsafe, terrible things happen. Right now people are fighting over supplies, soon they may just be fighting.”

Locals have shared images of their stockpiles of instant noodles and snacks on the social media platform Weibo.

One wrote: "No more going out ... so I won’t get sick. Hope Wuhan can get some support soon."

Supermarket shelves are empty as residents have started stockpiling goods to keep themselves isolated at home to avoid contracting the virus.

Cake Liu left Wuhan last week after visiting her boyfriend there and said everything was normal then, things have changed rapidly.

She said: "(My boyfriend) didn't sleep much yesterday. He disinfected his house and stocked up on instant noodles," Liu said. He's not really going out. If he does he wears a mask."

Petrol stations have been rammed with motorists trying to get as much fuel as possible amid rumours reserves had run out.

Pharmacies have sold out of face masks, residents said.

Seven million people in Huanggang, which is 45 miles away, have been told not to leave after there were confirmed cases.

And at least one million residents in Ezhou are unable to travel after the rail starions were shut.

 The Sun Online travelled to the deadly epicentre as cases rapidly have continued to skyrocket.

The virus has spread from Wuhan to other parts of China as well as South Korea, the US and Thailand.

There have been reported suspected cases in Saudi Arabia, Australia and Russia.

Local authorities are demanding that residents wear face masks in public places.

Our on the ground reporter, who is too fearful of the Chinese authorities to be identified, says there is little activity on the streets with people shutting themselves indoors.

She said: “Only the main transport hubs, such as the airport and the train station indicate that this is a city of 11 million, as families jostle with their suitcases, eager to escape to their Lunar New Year destinations, the most important festival in the Chinese calendar, in case an all-out quarantine is enforced.

"There’s a notable difference as soon as I land in Wuhan. In the airport, almost every single person, including staff, is wearing a face mask.

"There’s hand sanitizer on every desk and some staff are wearing gloves. I walked through an infrared camera in arrivals but no one seemed to be paying any attention.

"Travelling into the city by cab, even drivers who are alone in their cars are wearing masks. With the fog, pollution and rain."

A major Lunar New Year event, the most important event in the Chinese calendar which was due to start on Friday, has been cancelled.

Around 30,000 tourists had already purchased tickets to the event and 200,000 free event coupons had been handed out.

Mr Bin said: “Basically, do not go to Wuhan. And those in Wuhan please do not leave the city.

“Though the transmission route of the virus is yet to be fully understood, there is a possibility of virus mutation and a risk of further spread of the epidemic.”

The majority of cases have been found in Wuhan, where a seafood market which illegally sold wild animals is suspected of being the source of the outbreak.

Chinese officials confirmed 'novel coronavirus' - which causes pneumonia -can be passed from person to person.

Leading expert, Dr Jeremy Farrar, director of the Wellcome Trust, said that marks a serious shift change in the outbreak.

He warned: "This is extremely concerning."

"Person to person transmission has been confirmed and, as expected, we are seeing rapidly increasing case numbers across China, and in more countries, with health care workers infected.

"With travel being a huge part of the fast approaching Chinese New Year, it is right that concern levels are at the highest level.”

The mayor of Wuhan has confirmed the latest deaths, an 89-year-old man from the city, which is home to more than 11 million people.

A 66-year-old man, known only as Li, and a woman, 48, known as Yin were also confirmed to have died from multiple organ failure.