Wuhan coronavirus outbreak: 1st case confirmed in Singapore 
 A traveller wearing a face mask walks past a display for the upcoming Lunar New Year, the Year of the Rat, at the Beijing West Railway Station in Beijing on 21 January, 2020. (PHOTO: AP)

SINGAPORE — The Ministry of Health (MOH) on Thursday (23 January) confirmed the first case of the deadly Wuhan coronavirus in Singapore, with another case declared “preliminary positive”.

Three suspected cases with pneumonia were admitted for further assessment and treatment as well as isolated as a precautionary measure on Wednesday.

A 3-year-old male Chinese national, a 4-year-old male Chinese national, and a 78-year-old female Singapore resident – all of whom have travelled to mainland China – were reported to be in stable condition.

Ten suspected cases, including the trio, were announced in Singapore over the past two weeks, the majority of whom have been tested negative for the new coronavirus strain.

The ministry has said that more suspected cases are expected to emerge given the high volume of international travel to Singapore.

The new strain, which has since claimed 17 lives and infected more than 630 people in China so far, originated from the city of Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province.

At least 12 cases beyond mainland China and Singapore, including in South Korea, Japan, Thailand, and Hong Kong, have been confirmed.

The outbreak is closely linked to the Wuhan’s Huanan Seafood Market, where live animals or products, such as foxes, crocodiles, wolf puppies, giant salamanders, snakes, rats, peacocks, porcupines, camel meat, are sold.

The city has since been placed on lockdown on Thursday, along with two others, Huanggang and Ezhou, in the same province.

Chinese authorities confirmed that the virus is transmissible between humans and said it is adapting and mutating.

The virus belongs to the same family of coronaviruses as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which killed nearly 800 people globally during a 2002-2003 outbreak and also started in China.

Patients suffering from the virus may exhibit fever and symptoms of lower respiratory illness – such as coughing or difficulty in breathing –, as well as pneumonia-like symptoms like a runny nose, sore throat, and headache.

However, five of the 17 people who died from the virus have not displayed symptoms of fever, potentially complicating global efforts to check for infected travellers as they arrive at airports and other travel hubs.

Details released by China's National Health Commission show that the five victims had displayed other symptoms such as breathing difficulty, chest tightness, and coughing.

More to come...

Wuhan virus outbreak: Masks, sanitisers out of stock in pharmacies

Wuhan virus: MOH sets up taskforce and issues travel advisory; 3 more suspected cases isolated in S'pore