Kerala Nurses in Saudi Arabia Reportedly Affected By Coronavirus Outbreak, CM Seeks MEA Help 
 Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has written to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar after reports of Indian nurses working in Saudi Arabia being affected by the outbreak of Coronavirus. 
In his letter to Jaishankar, Vijayan mentioned that nurses working at Jazeera Abha Al Hayath Hospital in Saudi Arabia have been identified as being infected with the coronavirus, and India should get in touch with the Saudi authorities to ensure that action is taken to help them. 
 REUTERS 
"Corona outbreak among nurses in Azir Aba Al Hayat hospital in Saudi Arabia should be considered seriously and necessary steps must be taken," the Kerala Chief Minister said. 
Though there is no official confirmation on the number of Indians that have been affected, according to reports, one Kerala nurse has already tested positive for the deadly virus. 
The nurse, along with 30 other nurses, most from Kerala have been currently placed in isolation. The Kerala nurse who has tested positive is believed to have got the virus from a Filipino nurse, who was being looked after by her. However, the Health department in Kerala said they have no information about any nurses from the state having been affected. 
  REUTERS 
The department has issued an alert in the wake of the virus outbreak in China. Meanwhile, the Cochin International Airport (CIAL) on Wednesday began screening all incoming passengers from China and Hong Kong, following the outbreak of the coronavirus. 
State Health Minister K K Shylaja has said those who have returned from China should inform district medical officers besides instructing officials to step up surveillance in all four airports. 
The new virus was first spotted in Wuhan, the capital of Central China''s Hubei province. According to Chinese media so far 17 people have been killed and at least 570 have been infected by the outbreak. However independent observers say the numbers could be much higher. 
 REUTERS 
There are also reports that the virus could have spread to Hong Kong. The outbreak was reported just ahead of the Chinese New Year, which is said to the be world's biggest mass movement of people, as millions of Chinese working in big cities go back to their hometowns. There is a growing fear that this migration could also transport the virus across the country. 
Coronaviruses can infect both animals and people, and cause illness of the respiratory tract. The symptoms of infection include high fever, difficulty in breathing among others. Detection becomes difficult when these surfaces like flu or a bad cold. The incubation period from the time of exposure to the onset of symptoms is around two weeks.