Is coronavirus related to swine flu? 
 As China’s mystery coronavirus continues to spread, with 4000 cases now diagnosed and 17 lives claimed, the WHO organisation postponed the decision to declare a global public health emergency yesterday, citing the need for more information.

The deadly disease has been compared to swine flu, which caused a global flu pandemic in 2009 to 2010, killing as many as 575,400 people.

More recently the WHO declared public health emergencies over the breakout of the Zika virus in 2016, and the Ebola and Polio viruses in 2014.

However, although they are both respiratory diseases with similar symptoms, genetically coronaviruses and flu viruses look very different.

Coronavirus in fact has more in common with other, more severe respiratory diseases such as Middle East respiratory syndrome (Mers), and severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars).

Sars originated in China in 2002 and killed nearly 800 people around the world, whilst Mers first appeared in 2012 in Jordan before spreading through the Arabian peninsula.

These coronavirus outbreaks have proven far less deadly than swine flu, but fears are now growing that the strain detected in China could spread to the UK.

The virus, known also as 2019-nCoV, is understood to be a new strain of coronavirus that has not previously been identified in humans.

It is believed to have originated from infected animals at a seafood and wildlife market in Wuhan. The city is now quarantined in an attempt to control the virus, and Huanggang has been announced as the second city on lockdown.

However the WHO has also said there is evidence of it passing between humans, and investigations are continuing.

Coronaviruses cause mild to severe respiratory illnesses, ranging from the common cold to severe diseases such as SARS or Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS).

The early symptoms of the Wuhan coronavirus can take at least five days to show, but include a dry cough, a fever, shortness of breath and a sore throat.

While many of those affected have shown only mild symptoms, scans on some patients have shown fluid in the lungs consistent with viral pneumonia.

The virus is more likely to progress into a severe illness among older patients or those with weakened immune systems.

The swine flu virus closely resembled known influenza viruses that cause illness in pigs, whilst scientists now think the coronavirus could have been passed to humans from snakes.

Swine flu spread rapidly from country to country as it was a new type of virus which few were immune to.

Currently the coronavirus has crossed into neighbouring countries, but there are no travel warnings issued against visiting China, Japan, South Korea, Thailand or Australia.

Nowadays, the swine flue, or A/H1N1pdm09, virus is amongst the seasonal flu viruses that circulates every winter. Many people now have some level of immunity to it.

The symptoms are the same as other types of common flu and usually pass within one to two weeks. The regular flu jab will usually protect those who are at greater risk of becoming severely ill – however for coronavirus, there is no vaccine available.

As it’s a viral disease, antibiotics won’t be effective in treating it. China is now on high alert as the disease is expected to spread further as millions of people across the country prepare to travel home for this week’s Lunar New Year celebrations.

The WHO advise limiting close contact with anyone suffering from an acute respiratory infection.

Coughs and sneezes should be covered with disposable tissues or clothing, and regular hand-washing is also recommended as well as avoiding unprotected contact with wild or farm animals.

MORE: Coronavirus ground zero hit by panic buying as all transport is stopped

MORE: Second Chinese city put on lockdown to stop deadly coronavirus spread