Coronavirus fears as two patients being tested at UK hospital after China trip 
 Two people who travelled to the UK from China are being treated in isolation amid fears the deadly SARS-like coronavirus could spread here.

The patients were suffering flu-like symptoms after entering Britain and it is believed they recently travelled to London on a flight from Wuhan, ground zero for the outbreak in China.

Infection outbreak and control measures are in place around a ward where one of the patients was being treated at a Glasgow hospital, the Daily Record reports.

The outbreak has killed at least 17 people and infected more than 630 others in China since it emerged late last month, and it has since spread to countries including the US, Singapore, Japan, South Korea and Thailand.

Have you been affected by coronavirus? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.

Initial tests at Glasgow's Queen Elizabeth University Hospital have failed to rule out coronavirus in the two patients as authorities around the world worked to prevent a global pandemic.

But senior doctors believe the timing of the flights and the symptoms gave grounds to be optimistic that the patients were suffering from common flu.

A source said infection outbreak and control measures have been put in place around a ward where one patient was being treated in isolation.

The source said: “There was no doubt that the situation was being taken seriously because of the symptoms being displayed and the specific origin of travel.

“The patient came through London to Glasgow and after the symptoms were flagged up no chances were taken.

“The tests that were carried out could not immediately isolate what the condition might be and it may take a bit longer to be absolutely sure what doctors are dealing with.

“Obviously they are erring on the side of caution in the meantime.”

Flights between Wuhan - a a city of 11million people - and London were halted as the central Chinese city was put into lockdown in a desperate bid to prevent the virus from spreading.

Residents have been told not to leave the city.

Planes at Wuhan's airport have been grounded, and bus, train and ferry services have been cancelled.

Motorway toll booths have been shut and roads blocked, cutting off exits.

There was panic in Wuhan as residents stormed shops that sell masks and supermarket shelves were cleared of food and other supplies.

Neighbouring Huanggang, a city of about seven million people, has implemented a similar lockdown, suspending transport and ordering places such as cinemas and internet cafes to close.

"The lockdown of 11 million people is unprecedented in public health history," Gauden Galea, the World Health Organisation's (WHO) representative in Beijing, said.

It is feared the virus will spread rapidly in China and abroad as hundreds of millions of people travel for the week-long Lunar New Year holiday, which begins on Saturday.

The new strain of coronavirus is believed to have spread to humans at a market were live animals were illegally sold.

The WHO will decide on Thursday whether to declare the outbreak a global health emergency, which would step up the international response.

The actual number of cases could be much higher than the figures released by China.

Imperial College London said it estimated a total of 4,000 cases in Wuhan alone as of January 18 based on the number of cases reported in China and elsewhere.