Beijing cancels Chinese New Year celebrations as panic over coronavirus grows 
 Officials in the Chinese capital have scrapped New Year’s Eve events after the deadly coronavirus forced a third city to be quarantined.

Authorities in Ezhou have halted trains, buses and subways in an attempt to contain the mysterious new disease, which has now killed 17 people.

It comes after Wuhan – the epicentre of the epidemic – was put on lockdown, followed by Huanggang.

In a post on China’s Twitter-like platform Weibo, Beijing authorities said major events welcoming in the lunar New Year will be cancelled to control the spread of the killer coronavirus.

The thriving city is home to 24 million people and last year attracted 1.4 million tourists  to the Beijing Ditan and Longtan Temple Fairs, which will no longer go ahead.

The local government said they would provide more information ‘as the epidemic situation evolves’.

The new form of coronavirus has is thought to have infected 4,000 people and has now spread to seven countries.

Cases have been recorded in the US, Singapore, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau as well as China.

Suspected cases have also cropped up in Canada, Mexico, Brazil and Colombia.

What is the Coronavirus? The Coronavirus is part of a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome. It is an airborne virus, spread in a similar way to colds and the flu. In an outbreak in 2003 of a similar virus, SARS, more than 900 people around the world were killed within weeks. If the virus spreads to the windpipe and lungs, it can cause pneumonia, with older people, those with heart disease and weakened immune systems most vulnerable.

A total of 20 million people are thought to have been isolated as a result of the three Chinese cities’ effective travel bans.

One resident in Wuhan, where the disease emerged, said the atmosphere in the city felt like ‘the end of the world’.

European health officials fear the never-before-seen virus will reach the continent, with the UK and other nations already on high alert.

Authorities in China have warned the bug could mutate and become even deadlier as it continues to spread.

Health experts are on heightened alert as this time of year is when hundreds of millions of people are expected to travel overseas  for the Chinese Lunar New Year.

The outbreak prompted governments across the world to jump into action and roll out screening programmes.

But yesterday British scientists from Imperial College London’s MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis said people can easily slip through the net at airports.