Thomas wants Archie to have HIS nose so Meghan will 'have to look at him' 
 THOMAS Markle has revealed he hopes baby Archie will get HIS nose so Prince Harry and Meghan will "always have to look at him".

The 75-year-old has not spoken to his daughter since she married into the Royal Family - opening up about his devastation he was not there to walk her down the aisle.

 Thomas Markle revealed how he had not spoken to his daughter for more than a year - but wants his grandson Archie to have his noseCredit: Channel 5
11

 Thomas Markle has never met his grandson Archie
The former Hollywood lighting director has not even met his grandson Archie, who was born in May last year.

But the grandfather said he wanted Meghan, 38, to still think of him despite their estrangement - and revealed he hopes eight-month-old Archie will help remind her of him.

He said: "I hope he has my nose because every time they look at Archie they’ll see me."

The American-born retiree last night opened up in a tell-all Channel 5 documentary - Thomas Markle: My Story, saying he missed his daughter but feared "to them, I don't exist".

Thomas said: "Harry is part of my family - we should be talking.

"Meghan was my most important relationship and my pride and joy.

"I miss Meghan. I miss who she was. I don’t know she is now. That’s the problem."



In the doc, Thomas reveals never-before-seen home movie footage featuring Meghan from the ages of 11 and 16.

The video clips were filmed during a period when the Duchess of Sussex lived with her father - a period Thomas calls "my happiest years."

The bombshell documentary came as Meghan and Harry announced they were stepping down as royals - paying back the £2.4m on refurbishments to their Frogmore Cottage and moving to Canada part-time.





'THEY SAID THEY WOULD PROTECT ME'

Thomas said the last time he had spoken to Harry was on his hospital bed after he suffered a heart attack days before the royal wedding.

He claims he told the prince: “It’s a shame I didn’t die because you both could pretend that you’re sad and then I hung up.

"I haven’t heard from them or spoken to them since.”



The twice-married retiree criticised the couple for not supporting him in the run-up to their high profile wedding.





He said: "Meghan and Harry said ‘we’ll protect you from this’.

"But their protection was to tell me ‘don’t talk to anyone’.

Thomas said he had been left "jealous" that it was Prince Charles who walked Meghan down the aisle.

Thomas, who had recently undergone surgery after a heart attack, instead watched the ceremony on TV from a safe house while hiding from photographers.

He said: "My daughter looked beautiful. I wish that I could have been there with her. I was certainly appreciative Charles was there."

Thomas added: "I admit I cried a bit about that. To this day I can't forget that moment, she was beautiful. It was a nice wedding."

Breaking



HIGH ALERT
 Two patients in UK hospital with suspected coronavirus after flying from China 

ICEBOX BRITAIN
 Snow to hit UK this weekend as temperatures plunge to bone-chilling 1C 

LIKE A BAT OUTTA HELL
 Fears coronavirus outbreak is linked to bat soup sold at Wuhan market 

STEAK  JEEZ
 'Disgusting' Subway worker caught 'scratching his a**e' behind the counter 

Pictured


NEVER FORGET
 The gut-wrenching sights the Allies encountered when Auschwitz was liberated 

PRINCESS OF JAILS
 Kate visits female prison on busy tour but Meg tries to steal her thunder 







Meghan and Harry are now in Canada with baby Archie, expected to remain there after the Queen allowed them to step back from their royal duties.

And Meghan told close friends that Harry quitting his royal role is “the best thing that could ever happen” to him, it was claimed.

A source said: "She said that like her, his spirit was being crushed and she simply couldn't bear to see him suffer anymore."

 Prince Harry poses with his son ArchieCredit: SUSSEX ROYALS
11

 Prince Charles walked Meghan down the aisle at the royal wedding - while Thomas watched on TV in MexicoCredit: AP:Associated Press
11

 Thomas, pictured with Meghan and her mother Doria, slammed the lack of support he was given in the run-up to the royal weddingCredit: Channel 5
11

 Meghan lived with her father from the ages of 11 to 16Credit: Channel 5
11

 Thomas called Meg's teenage years the happiest of his lifeCredit: Channel 5
11

 Thomas Markle fears he will never see his daughter againCredit: James Breeden - The Sun
11

 Thomas and Doria got hitched in 1979 but amicably separated when Meghan was six
11

 Thomas spoke about his dramatic fallout with his daughter in a new TV documentaryCredit: James Breeden - The Sun
11

 It was Thomas' career in the television industry that inspired Meghan to become an actress
11

 Meghan had gushed about her dad on social media in the past
11

 Tensions heightened when Thomas staged photos with the paparazzi to 'improve his image'

Meghan Markle and Prince Harry share new photo of Archie in their 2019 highlights reel