Coronavirus outbreak: 16 people had contact with infected Washington state man 
 The Washington state man who was diagnosed with the deadly Wuhan coronavirus may have put over a dozen people at risk for the illness after arriving from China last week at a Seattle airport, officials said.

The unidentified patient, who is in his 30s and lives alone in Snohomish County, was determined to have close contact with 16 people during his five days back in the US before he received a diagnosis Monday for the contagious virus, public health officials said Wednesday.

The group has been contacted and is being actively monitored, which involves the local health department reaching out to them daily to determine whether they are experiencing any symptoms of the illness, such as upper respiratory issues.

Those at risk of the contagious illness — which is transmitted between humans — would have had to be within feet of the man, officials said.

“You essentially have to be in contact with somebody, within 6 feet, and they have to have enough contact with you so that droplets are essentially coming on to you,” Dr. John Wiesman, the state’s health officer, said.

Health officials have declined to release where the man traveled after returning to the US on Jan. 15. He arrived on an indirect flight from Wuhan, though the route hasn’t been publicly disclosed.

“If there is a location where we are concerned about potential transmission but Public Health cannot contact the individuals individually” then the department will announce that location, said Dr. Chris Spitters, who is the interim health officer for the Snohomish Health District.

The infected patient, who lives alone, began experiencing symptoms of the virus and contacted his health provider on Sunday. He was diagnosed the following day and placed in quarantine at Providence Regional Medical Center in Everett.

The case marked the first to be reported in the US. Four other countries have reported the virus, including China, Japan, Thailand and South Korea.

The mysterious illness — which emerged last month in the Chinese city of Wuhan — has killed 17 people and sickened more than 600.

With Post wires