2 more cities shut down as China scrambles to stop deadly coronavirus from spreading further 
 Chinese authorities have decided to lock down two more cities in a highly unusual attempt to contain a mysterious new virus that has killed 17 people and infected hundreds across the world. The unprecedented move comes after the city of Wuhan — one of the China’s busiest metropolis and the epicenter of the newly discovered infection — went into a total transit shutdown on Thursday, with trains, flights, buses and ferries temporarily suspended. The same measures will expand to the nearby cities of Huanggang and Ezhou on Friday, just one day before the Lunar New Year holiday, according to local officials. The effectiveness of such drastic actions remains to be seen. Health officials around the world are still trying to understand the illness, which has been described as a pneumonia-like coronavirus that can spread from humans to humans — even though the first cases are linked to a large seafood and animal market in Wuhan.The virus has sickened at least 630 people in mainland China and several others in Hong Kong, Macao, Singapore, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, Thailand, Vietnam and the U.S., state-run China Global Television Network reported Thursday.The only person who has been diagnosed with the virus in the U.S. is a Washington State man who recently traveled to China and has been isolated at a Seattle-area hospital. Federal health officials said the man is in his 30s and is in good condition.The outbreak has forced Beijing to indefinitely cancel multiple events that typically draw millions of people over the holiday weekend. Chinese people throughout the country have been urged to avoid crowded places like shopping malls and theaters and wear face masks when going outside. The World Health Organization is considering whether to declare a global health emergency, a rarely used designation that would trigger an international crisis response. Gauden Galea, a representative for the organization’s Beijing office, could not say whether shutting down the city of Wuhan would help contain the outbreak.“To my knowledge, trying to contain a city of 11 million people is new to science,” he told The Associated Press. “It has not been tried before as a public health measure.”Wuhan is a major transportation and industrial hub in central China’s Hubei province. All deaths reported so far have been reported in and around that province. The rising death toll has drawn similarities to SARS, another type of coronavirus that originated in China in the early 2000s and spread to more than a dozen other countries, killing about 800 people.Authorities said older adults with underlying medical conditions appear to be more vulnerable to the virus. The most common symptoms include coughing, fever, breathing difficulty and pneumonia. With News Wire Services