Gold climbs as spread of China flu fuels risk-off sentiment, boosting haven demand for the metal 
 Gold futures were poised Thursday to post their first gain in three sessions, as the spread of the coronavirus in Asia fed risk-off sentiment among traders, pressuring global stock markets and U.S. bond yields, and boosting haven demand for the precious metal.

“Negative action is U.S. equities drives treasury yields lower due partly to safe haven buying,” Michael Armbruster, managing partner at Altavest, told MarketWatch. “Falling treasury yields and the search for a safe haven are both very bullish for gold.”

Stock markets in Asia fell, while U.S. stocks traded lower Thursday. The 10-year Treasury note yield TMUBMUSD10Y, -2.31%  was down 3.9 basis points to 1.729%.

Against that backdrop, Gold for February delivery GCG20, +0.21%  on Comex climbed by $5, or 0.3%, at $1,561.70 an ounce, after sliding less than 0.1% on Wednesday.

The fast-moving influenza has now spread from China to Singapore during Lunar New Year, a key travel and gold-buying period in the Asian region. Singapore on Thursday confirmed its first case of the illness, the Channel News Asia reported.

On Thursday, Beijing locked down additional cities in an effort to contain the spread of the disease. Chinese officials have so far locked down Huanggang, a city of 7.5 million people, while a smaller city Ezhou, with population of million, said it also would restrict travel, the Wall Street Journal reported. Those lock downs follow reports earlier that officials in Wuhan, a city of 11 million people, had instituted travel restrictions.

Thus far, the outbreak has sickened more than 500 people in China and claimed at least 17 lives, according to official reports.

Meanwhile, WHO said its emergency committee on Wednesday was split as to whether to declare the new coronavirus a public health emergency of international concern and will meet again on Thursday “given the rapidly evolving situation.”

Gold tends to gain during periods of market fear but the metal also faces pressure from worries that physical buying will be harmed by the outbreak.

Check out: What the 2003 SARS epidemic tells us about the potential impact of China’s coronavirus on oil and metals

Market participants were also digesting monetary policy from European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde.

The European Central Bank, as expected, left interest rates unchanged on Thursday and maintained its commitment to purchasing 20 billion euros ($22.8 billion) a month in bonds. The ECB’s deposit rate stands at -0.5%, while its main refinancing operations rate holds at 0%.

In a statement, the ECB repeated that its Governing Council expects rates to remain at present or lower levels until there are solid signs stubbornly low inflation is on track to converge with the bank’s target of near, but below, 2%.

“The statement leans a bit easy on monetary policy as it said the ECB’s bond-buying program will continue ‘as long as necessary,’” Jim Wyckoff, senior analyst at Kitco.com, told MarketWatch.

Meanwhile, “industrial metals will trade with a softer bias on global spread of coronavirus,” Chintan Karnani, chief market analyst at Insignia Consultants, told MarketWatch. “Some concrete statement from World Health Organization (WHO), if any, will affect all metals and energies,” he wrote. Karnani noted that China’s markets will be closed from Friday to Jan. 30 for the holidays.

Among the industrial metals, March silver SIH20, -0.47%  was last down 7.8 cents, or 0.4%, to $17.75 an ounce and March copper HGH20, -1.23%  was off 3.1 cents, or 1.1%, at $2.734, after shedding 1% on Wednesday.

April platinum PLJ20, -1.07%  fell by 1.3% to $1,008 an ounce, while March palladium PAH20, -0.16%, which settled at another record Wednesday, shed 0.1% to $2,333.30 an ounce.