California toddler hospitalized for a MONTH with coronavirus 
 A three-year-old California girl has been hospitalized for a month with the coronavirus, but it is a different and less severe strain than the deadly virus that has killed at least 17 in China.

Aliyah Cardoza, from Azusa, was hospitalized on December 23 with what appeared to be common flu symptoms including a fever and a cough that escalated to a diagnosis of coronovavirus, Mycoplasma, acute respiratory syndrome and pneumonia.

A month later, Aliyah is intubated at Children's Hospital Los Angeles with a breathing tube and a chest tube, her mother Gloria Aguilera said.

Aliyah was diagnosed with the NL63 strain of the coronavirus, a family of viruses that span from common cold-like symptoms to severe respiratory diseases.

The NL63 strain is different than the 2019-nCoV strain, also known as the Novel Coronavirus, that killed 17 people and sickened hundreds in China, leading the country to send three cities into lockdown to stop it from spreading.

'They said it is common,' Aguilera said on Aliyah's strain.

'Very, very relieving that she doesn't have that strain,' she added on the China panic.

Still, doctors are not sure when Aliyah will be able to return home as her lung recently collapsed and she suffered a seizure on Sunday.

But officials are hopeful she'll make a full recovery. The Children's Hospital of Los Angeles said it sees cases of coronavirus each year.

'I didn't know she'd end up in this situation to where I'd have to see my daughter go through so much pain,' Aguilera said through tears to KTLA.

So far a GoFundMe page for Aliyah's medical costs and to support the family has surpassed $3,000 as of Thursday morning.

'She is on different types of medication to help keep her calm. Her fluid in her lungs is clearing up but she is still having a little bit of a hard time breathing. They have not gave me a discharge date yet, so I am not sure how much longer she will be there,' Aguilera said in her daughter's GoFundMe Page.

Human coronavirus NL63 was first identified in late 2004 and is a worldwide, common virus related to respiratory tract infections and bronchiolitis. It is common in young children and the elderly.

It's believed to be spread through direct person-to-person transmission in highly populated areas.

Most mild and moderate infections of the virus go away on their own. Infected patients with more severe symptoms can be given antiviral treatment.

The dangerous 2019-nCoV strain was identified by Chinese authorities on January 7 and though little is known about this fast-spreading virus, it is confirmed to be passed through human-to-human transmission.

Official figures show almost 600 patients have been struck down by the disease - but scientists yesterday warned as many as 10,000 people could have been infected in Wuhan, China alone.

Singapore today announced its first confirmed case of the coronavirus in a 66-year-old man who had flown there from Wuhan with his family on Monday.

This means the illness has now spread to eight countries, including the US.

In the US an unnamed man from Washington State, who is in his 30s, was diagnosed on Monday January 20, five days after he returned from China.

He came into close contact with at least 16 people before he was put in isolation.