Stocks drop amid mixed earnings and coronavirus fears 
 Stocks fell Thursday as investors pored through the latest batch of corporate earnings results and grappled with fears of the coronavirus spreading.

The Dow pulled back 170 points, while the S&P 500 slid 0.4% and the Nasdaq slipped 0.3%.

NBCUniversal-parent Comcast and Travelers both reported better-than-expected quarterly figures. However, Comcast dipped 1.4%, while Travelers slid nearly 3%. Procter & Gamble shares were up marginally after the company posted mixed quarterly numbers.

More than 12% of S&P 500 companies have reported quarterly earnings. Of those companies, about 70% have beaten analyst expectations, FactSet data shows.

Sentiment was kept in check as the spread of the China coronavirus has placed renewed downward pressure on global equity markets, with the death toll rising to 17 and the World Health Organization set to reconvene Thursday to decide whether to declare a global health emergency.

On Wednesday, the number of confirmed cases of the new strain of coronavirus, which originated in China’s Wuhan city and has now been detected throughout Asia and as far away as the U.S., reached 571. Singapore also confirmed its first coronavirus case earlier in the day.

Asian shares tumbled overnight, while Chinese Treasury futures surged, as fears of an economic fallout from the virus sent investors running for cover. The Shanghai Composite dropped 2.75%, its biggest one-day loss since May 6, when it plummeted 5.6%. In Japan, the Nikkei 225 dropped 1% along with Korea’s Kospi index.

Wall Street is coming off a choppy session in which ended with the major averages closing along the flatline. Those moves come as Wall Street’s recent record-setting rally takes a breather. The Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite are all down for the week entering Thursday’s session.

“Investors are wondering what will ultimately crack this stock market,” said Jim Paulsen, chief investment strategist at The Leuthold Group. “Even though a stock market correction is almost assured at some point, a sentiment refresh, alone, would not likely produce a sustained decline.”

On the data front, weekly jobless claims rose less than expected to 211,000 from 205,000 the week before.