United Airlines' Q4 2019 earnings call takeaways 
 United Airlines CEO Oscar Munoz characterizes 2019 as “a banner year” for the Chicago-based carrier despite many uncertainties tied to the troubled Boeing 737 Max plane.


It was hard to argue with that given the fourth quarter and 2019 full-year numbers United released in advance of its Jan. 22 earnings call. 


            
            
        Fourth-quarter net income of $641 million was up 50 percent year over year. Full-year 2019 net income was $3 billion, up 51 percent year over year. 


The company bragged that United’s results would prove to be highest among all its principal rivals, include Delta Air Lines, American Airlines and Southwest Airlines.


Here are five key takeaways from the Jan. 22 earnings call:


1. The return of the Boeing 737 Max is a huge unknown


The troubled plane’s return was repeatedly addressed during the earnings call. But United has no sure idea of when the troubled Max will return. Indeed the possibility surfaced during the call that the plane might not be recertified to fly before the end of 2020. But United emphasized it does not expect the Max to operate at all during the peak summer travel season. United had 11 Max aircraft when the plane was grounded worldwide in mid-March, and the carrier expected to take delivery of at least 16 more Max planes since then. 


2.  Efforts to grow capacity have been thwarted


United had in place plans to grow capacity and revenue on high-traffic routes from key hubs with the addition of more of the larger Max aircraft. But those plans are now on hold indefinitely as the carrier awaits further guidance on the Boeing Max.


3.  United is adjusting cabin configurations on the Dreamliner


United has been adjusting cabin configurations on some Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft to more closely reflect the kind of traffic the airline is getting on international routes. United is reducing the number of Polaris international business cabin seats on some of the smaller 787-8 Dreamliner flying routes popular with price-conscious leisure travelers. 


On larger 787-9 Dreamliners flying business-oriented routes, United has found ways to add a few more economy cabin seats without reducing the number of high-margin Polaris cabin seats. United has seen traffic grow to Latin America in recent months, with slight downturns in traffic on Asia/Pacific routes and trans-Atlantic routes. 


United said it is too early to know what impact the developing coronavirus problem in China could have on traffic to and from that region.


4. United's relationship with co-branded credit card provider Chase is solid


After rumors last year that United might be in the market to work with a new credit card provider, the carrier signaled it is satisfied with its working relationship with Chase. United said it will introduce a new business credit card this year.


5.  Incoming CEO Kirby says Munoz has taught him a thing or two


United’s Munoz is set to exit as CEO in May, after having taught his successor a few things. Incoming CEO Scott Kirby said the most important thing he’s learned from his mentor is that United’s success is about more than the making the numbers.  


Added Kirby: “Oscar taught me to focus on our customers and employees, and I think that we have created a culture of teamwork.”


United Airlines is a unit of United Airlines Holdings (Nasdaq: UAL) and is the busiest airline in Houston, where it had a 58 percent market share for commercial passengers in 2018 and a 77.4 percent market share at George Bush Intercontinental Airport alone, according to Houston Airport System data. United also is one of the largest employers in downtown Houston, with about 1,400 employees, according to Houston Business Journal research.