Millions in lockdown as virus spreads 
 Millions of people are in lockdown in two Chinese cities at the epicentre of a coronavirus outbreak that has killed 17 people and infected more than 630.
Singapore has confirmed its first case, a Wuhan man who arrived in the Asian hub on January 20 and is currently in isolation in hospital.
One of his travelling companions has also been hospitalised as a suspect case.
Vietnam's health ministry said on Thursday two Chinese citizens in the southeast Asian country had tested positive for coronavirus, but were in "good condition".
Health officials fear the transmission rate will accelerate as hundreds of millions of Chinese travel at home and abroad during week-long holidays for the Lunar New Year, which begins on Saturday.
The previously unknown virus strain is believed to have emerged late last year from illegally traded wildlife at an animal market in Wuhan, a city of 11 million people in central China.
Most transport in Wuhan was suspended on Thursday and people were told not to leave.
Hours later, neighbouring Huanggang, a city of about 7 million people, announced a similar lockdown.
The World Health Organisation's representative in Beijing, Gauden Galea, said the lockdown of 11 million people was unprecedented in public health history.
Other cities were also taking steps to restrict movement and contact.
Nearby Ezhou shut train stations. China's Education Ministry said schools should not hold large events or exams.
The capital cancelled major public events, including two Lunar New Year temple fairs, the state-run Beijing News said.
Airports worldwide were screening passengers arriving from China.
Hong Kong, which has two confirmed cases, is turning two holiday camps into quarantine stations as a precaution. Taiwan has banned anyone from Wuhan from going to the island.
There is no vaccine for the virus, which can spread through respiratory transmission. Symptoms include fever, difficulty in breathing and cough, similar to many other respiratory illnesses.
Preliminary research suggested it was passed on to humans from snakes, but government medical adviser Zhong Nanshan has also identified badgers and rats as possible sources.
The WHO will decide on Thursday whether to declare the outbreak a global health emergency, which would step up the international response.
If it does so, it will be the sixth international public health emergency to be declared in the last decade.
The WHO's Emergency Committee meeting is under way in Geneva and a news conference is expected afterwards.
Some experts, including Australia's chief medical officer, believe the virus is not as dangerous as previous coronaviruses such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome.
"The early evidence at this stage would suggest it's not as severe," Australia's Chief Medical Officer Brendan Murphy said.
Giving the latest details on infections in China, state television said 634 cases had been confirmed. By the end of Wednesday, China's National Health Commission confirmed 17 dead.
Of the known cases worldwide, Thailand has confirmed four, Vietnam has reported two, while Singapore, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the United States have reported one each.