New restrictions could make it more difficult for pregnant women to get US visas 
 In a move purportedly aimed at curbing "birth tourism," the Trump administration issued new visa guidelines Thursday that could make it more difficult for some pregnant women to get visas to visit the United States.

Under the U.S. Constitution, anyone born in the U.S. is considered a citizen. While the practice of traveling to the U.S. to give birth is not fundamentally illegal, authorities have arrested operators of birth tourism agencies for visa fraud or tax evasion.

Under the new guidelines, which take effect Friday, visa applicants deemed by consular officers to be coming to the U.S. primarily to give birth will now be treated like other foreigners coming to the U.S. for medical treatment — they must prove they have the money to pay for it, including transportation and living expenses.

The State Department "does not believe that visiting the United States for the primary purpose of obtaining U.S. citizenship for a child, by giving birth in the United States — an activity commonly referred to as 'birth tourism' — is a legitimate activity for pleasure or of a recreational nature," according to the new rules.

More travel: Trump says he will add 'a couple' countries to his controversial travel ban

A State Department spokesperson said earlier that the rules are "intended to address the national security and law enforcement risks associated with birth tourism, including criminal activity associated with the birth tourism industry," the Associated Press reported.

Implementing the new guidelines could be problematic. Consular officers conducting visa interviews do not have the right to ask whether a woman is pregnant or intends to become so. But they would have to determine whether a visa applicant would be coming to the U.S. primarily to give birth.

The new policy also raises questions as to whether a woman could get turned away by border officers who suspect she may be pregnant just by looking at her.

President Donald Trump has repeatedly complained about "birth tourism" and "anchor babies," in which the foreign parents of a child born in the U.S. could use that connection to gain their own U.S. citizenship.

In 2018, Trump told Axios he would issue an executive order that he said would end the right to citizenship for babies of non-citizens and unauthorized immigrants born on U.S. soil.

"It was always told to me that you needed a constitutional amendment. Guess what? You don't," Trump said, claiming he could do it by executive order.

There are no figures on how many foreign women travel to the U.S. specifically to give birth. The Center for Immigration Studies, a group that advocates for stricter immigration laws, estimated that in 2012, about 36,000 foreign-born women gave birth in the U.S., then left the country.

In other news: China quarantines 20 million people in 3 cities; coronavirus vaccine could be 3 months away

This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Trump administration issues visa restrictions for pregnant women