Killer coronavirus outbreak sparks panic buying in Wuhan 
 Shoppers in Wuhan have been filmed fighting in a shop over vegetable after the city of 11million was locked down amid an outbreak of a deadly new virus.

The coronavirus epidemic, which has killed 17 people and sickened around 600, broke out days before the Lunar New Year's Day on Saturday when families gather for reunion feasts.

Pictures from the epicentre of the outbreak show empty shelves in supermarkets and throngs of residents queuing to pay for their grocery.

Accounts on Weibo, the country's equivalent to Twitter, indicate that the price for some leafy greens have surged to more than 10 times their original prices and locals are fearing that the provincial capital would run out of food after all means of transport were cut off yesterday.

Ezhou and Huanggang, two nearby smaller cities, are going into lockdown today.

The provincial market watchdog today acknowledged that the city was facing shortage of vegetable and the phenomenon was caused by panic buying.

Chen Zhuan, a representative from the Hubei Provincial Market Management Bureau, demanded all farmers' markets and supermarkets conduct price checks on their products and keep the food prices at a 'stable' level.

China's central government has also issued the province one billion yuan (£110million) as an emergency relief fund to help the local authorities tackle the alarming health crisis.

The government of Wuhan has reportedly ordered a state-run construction company to build a dedicated coronavirus hospital in six days in a desperate bid to curb the outbreak.

The new fatal virus, which emerged in Wuhan last month, has killed at least 17 people, sickened around 600 and spread to 10 countries and regions outside of mainland China.

Its symptoms are typically a fever, cough and trouble breathing, but some patients have developed pneumonia, a potentially life-threatening infection that causes inflammation of the small air sacs in the lungs.

Scientists in China have recognised its similarity to SARS, which turned into a global killer between 2002 and 2003.

Experts also feared that fear it may have spread to humans from snakes or bats.

The deadly virus spreading across Asia is far more contagious than previously thought and someone who is infected can spread it with just a simple cough or a sneeze, scientists say.

Seventeen people have died because of the virus already and almost 600 have been infected in at least 10 countries – experts predict the true number of cases could be in the thousands and it may kill as many as two in 100.

The discovery of how contagious the infection is comes as photos and video have emerged of officials in China shuttling a man out of an airport inside a huge see-through pod to stop him infecting passers-by.

A third city in China went into lockdown today while officials battle to stop the spread of the deadly new coronavirus that has killed 17 and likely infected thousands – officially, 599 people have caught it.

Major Chinese New Year events in Beijing have been cancelled, authorities in Ezhou have shut down train stations, and Huanggang has announced it will suspend public buses and trains as well, following the example of Wuhan, the locked-down city at the centre of the outbreak.

Footage coming out of Wuhan today shows disastrous scenes, with a man seen disinfecting a neighbourhood with gas, traffic building up on blockaded highways and shoppers scrapping in a supermarket.

Three more countries have today announced they have recorded cases of the infection – Singapore, Vietnam and Saudi Arabia.

In Singapore, a 66-year-old man who had flown from Wuhan with his family on Monday is recovering in hospital. A 37-year-old companion is also in hospital under observation but has not been diagnosed.

In Vietnam, a Chinese father a son are in hospital in Ho Chi Minh City after flying there from Wuhan and becoming ill. They are in 'good condition', according to Vietnamese authorities.

And India's Minister of State for External Affairs, Vellamvelly Muraleedharan, confirmed on Twitter that an Indian nurse working in Saudi Arabia has been diagnosed with the infection and is 'recovering well' in hospital.

Four patients have been taken to hospital in Scotland and tested for the killer coronavirus after returning from China with flu-like symptoms, it can be revealed.

This means the illness has now spread to 10 countries, including the US, and European health officials fear the never-before-seen virus will reach the continent where the UK and other nations are already on high alert.

It was revealed today that an American man infected with the deadly virus – which Chinese officials have warned will mutate and become deadlier – came into close contact with at least 16 people before he was put in isolation.

The World Health Organization is facing increasing pressure to declare the crisis a public health emergency, like it has done for Ebola and Zika in the past.  Health chiefs will meet again later today to make a final verdict.