Patients in Scotland tested for coronavirus 
 Image copyright
                 Reuters
                
            
            
            
                Image caption
                
                    The virus has spread to a number of other countries
                
            
            
        Four patients in Scottish hospitals are being tested after showing symptoms of coronavirus. 
The new strain of the virus has so far killed 17 people in China and there are more than 500 confirmed cases.
Prof Juergen Haas, a specialist in infectious diseases at the University of Edinburgh, said three of the suspected cases were in Edinburgh.
All the patients had respiratory symptoms and had been in Wuhan, thought to be the source, in the last 14 days. 
Wuhan has gone into lockdown, along with another Chinese city, Huanggang.
The fourth case in Scotland is thought to be in Glasgow.
It is not yet known which hospitals are treating the patients, one of which is an Edinburgh student.
Samples are being sent in category A transport to a laboratory in London for urgent testing. 
Prof Haas, head of infection medicine at Edinburgh University, said it was "very likely" that cases would be confirmed in the UK.

            
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
            
                Image caption
                
                    Prof Juergen Haas said it was "very likely" that there would be confirmed cases in the UK
                
            
            
        "In any European countries there is a danger that these cases occur," he said. "Here at the University of Edinburgh we have more than 2,000 students from China and they are always coming and going back to China so we are relatively sure we will have cases in the UK from travellers coming back from China."
He warned that the spread of the virus might increase as more people travelled around for Chinese New Year, within China and to other countries.
Any suspected cases have to be isolated and staff dealing with them must wear protective clothes including gloves, masks and goggles. 
Elderly people and those with underlying health conditions are particularly at risk. 
Dundee University has a joint education partnership with Wuhan University, where students from Wuhan complete the final year of their architecture degree at Dundee. Many opt to remain at Dundee for a further year to obtain their Masters qualification.
The university said there were currently 34 students from the programme in Dundee, having arrived in September 2019 and said five members of staff had returned from a visit to Wuhan last week.
No health concerns have been raised.
"We will continue to monitor the situation taking advice from the relevant agencies as to appropriate action," the spokesman said.
The university has also advised students to be careful if receiving packages from areas where the virus is present, especially if they contain food items.

            
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Reuters
                
            
            
            
                Image caption
                
                    A total of 500 cases of coronavirus have been confirmed
                
            
            
        Other Scottish universities have given general advice to students travelling to China and said anyone who has been in China, or other areas where incidents of infection have been reported, within the last 14 days, and is experiencing respiratory symptoms, to contact their GP or NHS 24.
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon was questioned about the risk to people in Scotland at First Minister's Questions at the Scottish Parliament on Thursday.
She said situation was being closely monitored, adding: "I should say, that the risk to the public here in Scotland - and indeed the UK - is currently classified as low but that is kept under review."
Sir Jeremy Farrar, director of the Wellcome Trust research charity and an expert on disease in Asia, told BBC Scotland the outbreak in China was "very, very concerning".
"China is facing a real crisis," he said. "This is now spreading across China and we are likely to see a lot more of this epidemic before it stops."
Authorities have suspended planes and trains in and out of Wuhan - a city of 11 million people - as well as all public transport within the city.
Similar measures will take effect in nearby Huanggang, a city of more than seven million, as of midnight.
The virus has spread to the US, Japan, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Vietnam, Taiwan and South Korea.
The new strain of coronavirus is believed to have originated at a market in Wuhan. One resident of the city said the atmosphere felt like "the end of the world".