Coronavirus: Here's what airlines and airports are doing to screen, safeguard passengers 
 After the first case of the new coronavirus from China was discovered in the United States, airlines, airports and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the U.S. have responded to try to mitigate the spreads of the deadly respiratory virus.

The new coronavirus, which originated in the central city of Wuhan, China, has so far infected more than 540 and killed at least 17, according to Chinese authorities. Wuhan officials have halted air and train travel from the city and closed public transportation. The virus has spread to Beijing, Thailand, South Korea, Japan and Taiwan.

Here's what we know about coronavirus cases in the U.S. and how the airline industry is trying to stop the spread of the virus.

The latest: China quarantines 20 million people in 3 cities; coronavirus vaccine could be 3 months away

Airline and airport officials in America aren't taking any chances, examining passengers arriving on international flights that may be exhibiting certain symptoms.

There have been three high-profile incidents this week, including one on a flight that did not originate in Asia.

On Wednesday night, an American Airlines passenger arriving at Los Angeles International Airport from Mexico City received medical attention upon arrival, American spokesman Curtis Blessing said.

He was transported to a medical center for disease control for precautionary reasons, Blessing added. No other information on the passenger was disclosed.

Separately Wednesday, nine passengers on a Cathay Pacific flight from Hong Kong to Boston were evaluated.

None of the passengers had any symptoms, said Samantha Decker, spokeswoman for the Massachusetts Port Authority, which operates Boston Logan International Airport.

On Tuesday, two passengers arriving at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport from Shanghai on Tuesday after appearing to exhibit symptoms of coronavirus. However, both were eventually cleared and released.

"We continue to follow CDC guidelines and remain in close contact with authorities in the United States and Asia to further ensure the safety of our customers and employees," United spokeswoman Andrea Hiller told USA TODAY.

What is coronavirus, and should Americans be worried? What to know about the outbreak in China

So far, the only known U.S. case is an unidentified man from Snohomish County, Washington, who traveled to Wuhan, China, in November to visit family and returned Jan. 15 on a connecting flight to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport.

County and federal health officials began the painstaking work of tracking the man's travel and contacting individuals who shared flights, public transportation or otherwise came in close contact with him, and public health officials are monitoring at least 16 people who were in close contact with him.

Sea-Tac spokesman Perry Cooper said despite the passing sick passenger, the airport was determined by CDC to be low-risk. Airport staff was neither discouraged or encouraged to wear masks or gloves, or take other protective measures beyond those normally employed during flu season, he said.

Coronavirus: Suburban Seattle man remains only known US resident with the mysterious new virus

Health officials said the virus is low risk and likely spreads through tiny droplets when a person coughs or sneezes. Officials urged people to take the usual cold-and-flu season precautions: frequent hand washing, covering your mouth when coughing or sneezing and staying home when you don't feel well.

Americans face little risk from the deadly new coronavirus spreading across China and a vaccine could be ready for human testing within three months, the nation's leading expert on infectious disease says.

Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, provided the upbeat message Wednesday.

Containing coronavirus:  Vaccine could be ready in months, expert says

Outbreak:  How to stay healthy on a plane as coronavirus, flu raise travel concern

Earlier this week, the CDC announced it would expand screening of passengers arriving from Wuhan to two more U.S. airports: Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson International and Chicago's O'Hare International Airport.

They are in addition to the three airports announced last week: Los Angeles International, San Francisco International and New York JFK.

To manage the screenings and contain the spread of the virus, the CDC said all travelers flying between Wuhan, in central China, and the United States will be rerouted through one of the five screener airports if they aren't already scheduled to fly there.

Traveler tips:How to stay healthy on a plane as coronavirus, flu, colds raise travel concerns

American Airlines President Robert Isom said on the airline's earnings conference call Thursday that the airline is working closely with the CDC, U.S. Customs and Border Protection and public health officials to make sure it is following "best practices'' when it comes to public health issues.

"We're doing that with an intent to make sure that we take care of our customers and team members,'' he said.

Beginning Thursday, the airline began providing additional hand-sanitizing wipes to flight attendants working all American flights between the U.S. and Shanghai, Beijing and Hong Kong. The airline will monitor the supply levels and replenish them as needed, American spokesman Blessing said.

China decided Thursday to lock down three cities that are home to more than 18 million people in an unprecedented effort to try to contain the illness in the Lunar New Year travel rush. Beijing officials have also reportedly canceled New Year's events.

Police, SWAT teams and paramilitary troops guarded Wuhan’s train station, where metal barriers blocked the entrances at 10 a.m. sharp. Only travelers holding tickets for the last trains were allowed to enter, and those booked for later trains were turned away.

In addition to the train station, flights, ferry, subway and long-distance bus services were also halted.

Similar measures will take effect from Friday in the nearby cities of Huanggang and Ezhou.

Chinese reaction: City halts all air, train traffic to contain spread of coronavirus that has killed 17

Meanwhile, North Korea has temporarily banned foreign tourists to guard against the spread of the virus, tour operators in China said.

Japan Prime Minister Shinzo Abe urged officials to step up quarantine checks at airports and other entry points, and Japan will require visitors arriving from Wuhan to fill in health forms.

The semi-autonomous city of Hong Kong is one of the most popular destinations for mainland Chinese. It has stepped up surveillance and ordered more cleaning and disinfecting for planes and trains from Wuhan as well as for train stations and the airport.

At Incheon airport near Seoul, the only airport in South Korea with direct flights from Wuhan, special gates are designated for passengers from the city and ear thermometers are used to check their temperatures. Arrival halls are being sprayed more frequently with disinfectant, and escalator handrails, elevator buttons and other sensitive surfaces are wiped with disinfectant multiple times a day.

Nigeria's government says health authorities at points of entry are on alert for cases of coronavirus arriving in Africa's most populous country. The Nigeria Center for Disease Control asked that travelers from Wuhan report to a medical facility and the center if they feel ill.

India is conducting thermal screening at multiple airports of passengers arriving from China, including Hong Kong. In-flight announcements before arrival will direct passengers with a fever or cough who have traveled to Wuhan in the previous 14 days to declare themselves to health authorities.

Singapore has expanded temperature screening at Changi Airport, one of Asia's busiest travel hubs, for all travelers on flights arriving from China.

Neighboring Malaysia has also beefed up screening at Kuala Lumpur's airport.

Bangladesh civil aviation authorities have ordered airport managers to start screening incoming passengers from China. A.H.M. Touhid-ul Ahsan, director of the main Shahjalal International Airport, said doctors at the airport would look for fevers, coughs, breathing difficulties and sore throats.

Brendan Murphy, Australia's chief medical officer, said biosecurity staff and state health officials in New South Wales are meeting flights from Wuhan and distributing pamphlets about the virus printed in English and Chinese to all passengers.

The Italian Health Ministry says passengers making direct and indirect flights from Wuhan, China to Rome's Leonardo da Vinci airport will be checked for potential signs of the virus.