Passenger hospitalized with possible coronavirus symptoms after landing at Los Angeles airport 
 A passenger who landed at Los Angeles International Airport on Wednesday night was taken to the hospital and quarantined after showing symptoms similar to the mysterious coronavirus that has sickened hundreds of people in China and around the world, local news outlets reported Thursday. Airport officials said in a tweet that the passenger was hospitalized overnight “for a precautionary evaluation,” but no details were immediately available. The passenger came from Mexico City on an American Airlines flight that arrived at LAX just before 6:30 p.m., according to Fox 11.Federal health officials have confirmed only one case of the Wuhan coronavirus in the U.S. A Washington State man who recently traveled to China was diagnosed with the pneumonia-like infection this week and he’s been isolated at a Seattle-area hospital, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which has stressed that the risk to the general public is low. Health officials in Los Angeles County echoed that message on Wednesday, citing the newly implemented screenings that are in place at LAX and four other U.S. airports.“We are urging the public to remain calm, as it is very unlikely that they are at risk of contracting this virus,” Barbara Ferrer, the county’s public health director, said in a statement.Neither health officials nor American Airlines returned a request for comment Thursday morning on the possible coronavirus case at the Los Angeles airport.Besides LAX, travelers landing at New York City’s JFK, Chicago’s O’Hare, Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson and San Francisco’s international airports are all being screened for possible coronavirus symptoms. Passengers coming from Wuhan, a Chinese city of 11 million that is believed to be the epicenter of the outbreak, now must go to one of those five airports before they’re allowed into the U.S., the CDC announced this week. Wuhan was under a temporary transit shutdown on Thursday as Chinese authorities scrambled to contain the deadly outbreak. Two other cities were also expected to be locked down on Friday. The newly discovered infection has killed 17 people and sickened more than 600 in China. Several other countries — including Japan, South Korea and Vietnam — have confirmed at least one case each.