Live Updates on the 2019 Novel Coronavirus: Two More Countries Confirm Cases 
 A militia member uses a digital thermometer to take a driver's temperature at a checkpoint at a highway toll gate in Wuhan in central China's Hubei Province on Jan. 23, 2020. (Chinatopix via AP)

Live Updates on the 2019 Novel Coronavirus: Two More Countries Confirm Cases

A new coronavirus has infected hundreds of people in China and has spread to at least five countries since breaking out in Wuhan last month. Check back for updates.

Singapore and Vietnam both reported confirmed cases of the 2019 Novel Coronavirus on Jan. 23.

A Chinese man and his father both tested positive for the virus in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnamese health officials said. The father traveled to Vietnam from Wuhan on Jan. 13 and infected his son.

In Singapore, a 66-year-old Chinese man who lives in Wuhan was put in isolation after arriving with his family on Jan. 20.

Health officials isolated his son and were working to find people who were near the man on the flight. Eight others who traveled with them had already left to another country, which was alerted.

Chinese officials said they were quarantining two cities in addition to Wuhan, which was quarantined on Thursday morning.

The virus spread widely in Wuhan, which is considered the epicenter.

The city has a population of roughly 11 million. The quarantine included shutting down the city’s airport and all public transportation.

Officials said Huanggang and Ezhou were also being locked down, state media reported.

Over 500 people have been infected in China. All the deaths from the virus, 17 so far, have taken place in the country.

Australian health officials were looking into a possible case of coronavirus after earlier ruling out another possible case.

Authorities said the suspected infected person arrived in Sydney on Jan. 22.

“We have one case that is currently under investigation. We are able to rapidly undertake testing of cases that come to our attention and either exclude or confirm those cases in a very short time frame,” New South Wales Chief Health Officer Dr. Kerry Chant said at a press conference.

Authorities in other countries are looking into possible cases, including Brazil.

Cases have been confirmed in the United States, Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and China.