Coronavirus Spread Fears In China: Cathay Pacific Allows Crew To Wear Masks 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	The rapid spread of the coronavirus in China, which is alarmingly contactable between humans, has led to increased concern, particularly amongst airlines.
The coronavirus outbreak began in the Chinese city of Wuhan and has now been detected as far afield as Thailand and the U.S.
WUHAN, CHINA - JANUARY 23:  (CHINA OUT) A resident wear masks to buy vegetables in the market on ... [+] January 23th,2020 in Wuhan, Hubei¬China . Flights, trains and public transport including buses, subway and ferry services have been temporarily closed and officials have asked residents told to stay in town in order to help stop the outbreak of a strain of coronavirus that has killed 17 people and infected over 500 in places as far away as the United States. This week marks the start of Chinese Lunar New Year holiday, the busiest season for Chinese travellers.  (Photo by Getty Images)
Getty ImagesIn an attempt to contain the spread of the virus before the Chinese Lunar New Year, Wuhan’s local government has now closed all the city’s transportation networks and suspended flights since Thursday. 
With viruses and germs more prone to spread in confined spaces and particularly on aircraft where air is recycled between as many as 300-400 passengers on some wide-body aircraft, the Cathay Pacific Flight Attendants Union has requested that cabin crew be allowed to wear surgical masks in an attempt to prevent the catching and spreading of the deadly virus.
A masked airport assistance staff member speaks on the phone at the check-in area at Hong Kong's ... [+] international airport back in 14 May 2003 during the SARS virus outbreak. Outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in the region, announced 14 May the company has no plans to raise fresh cash at the moment to help it cope with the impact.    AFP PHOTO/Richard A. BROOKS (Photo by Richard A. Brooks and - / AFP) (Photo by RICHARD A. BROOKS/AFP via Getty Images)
AFP via Getty ImagesThe airline is already allowing passengers originally scheduled to fly to or from Wuhan to reschedule for free up until March 31, and Hong Kong authorities have been distributing health declaration forms along with antibacterial wipes at the boarding gate for Wuhan flights.
The airline based in Hong Kong is one of the most exposed to a potential spread of the Coronavirus, and has obliged by allowing the crew to wear face masks.
"Due to the evolving information from health authorities, we will allow crew members and frontline airport employees to wear surgical face masks when on duty at their discretion," Cathay Pacific said in a statement.
A photo showing planes belonging to the Hong Kong Airline Carrier Cathay Pacific seen in Hong Kong ... [+] International Airport in Hong Kong, China. 
On Tuesday, June 11, 2019, in Hong Kong, China. (Photo by Artur Widak/NurPhoto via Getty Images)
NurPhoto via Getty ImagesCathay Pacific has already seen waning demand on routes due to tensions that have hit tourism, and with the Coronavirus outbreak, the airline has seen further downward pressure on its share price already in 2020.
The Coronavirus has now seen more than 500 confirmed cases, and 25 deaths, with the deadly virus spreading beyond Wuhan.