Coronavirus: Macleans College international students caught up in lockdown in China 
 Supermarket parking lots were packed and store shelves nearly bare as residents of Wuhan, China, stocked up on essentials on January 23 amid the outbreak of coronavirus.

Two international students due to start school at Auckland's Macleans College next week are stuck in China due to the deadly coronavirus lock down.

Macleans College principal Steven Hargreaves confirmed to Stuff the students were not yet allowed to return to New Zealand due to an internal travel ban on Wuhan.

Chinese health authorities imposed a quasi-quarantine around Wuhan on Thursday, advising people in the city of 11 million people not to leave, as they stepped up efforts to stop the spread of the virus that has claimed 17 lives and sickened hundreds.

​The two unrelated students studied at the south Auckland college last year, and had planned to return to their same homestay families.

READ MORE:

 * Virus-hit Chinese city to shut flights, public transport as deaths reach 17

 * Coronavirus: As illness spreads, anxiety rises in China and overseas

 * First man in Australia monitored for coronavirus, authorities confirm

 * Human-to-human transmission confirmed in China coronavirus

However, it is not yet clear when they'll be allowed to leave Wuhan.

​"We just have to stay in touch with them to find out what they're travel plans will be," Hargreaves said.

Once they return, the students will be integrated back into the college after a week off, while on the look out for flu-like symptoms.

"It's a precautionary measure. We just want to be cautious."

Hargreaves said the Ministry of Health had been in communication with the school nurse network via Counties Manukau DHB.

The Schools International Education Business Association (SIEBA), which supported schools offering international education, had also offered advice.

At this stage, there were no concerns for the school's other students, but they were monitoring the situation closely, Hargreaves said.

Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay earlier said the novel coronavirus caused pneumonia and symptoms included coughs, fever and breathing difficulties.

People who had died from the virus were understood to have already been in poor health, she said.

Travellers to New Zealand who become sick within a month of their arrival are encouraged to seek medical advice and contact Healthline at 0800 611 116, or a doctor, and share their travel history.