The deadly new coronavirus has reached the US. Here's how to protect yourself 
 (CNN) What started as a mystery virus last month in Wuhan, China, has now killed at least 17 people and infected hundreds more around the world.

In the US, the first case of Wuhan coronavirus was confirmed Tuesday in Washington state -- a man in his 30s who is under observation --stoking fears of an outbreak in this country.

So what are officials doing in the US, and how can you minimize your risk?

What the CDC is doing

The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention raised its travel warning for Wuhan from level 2 to level 3 -- the highest possible level

"CDC recommends that travelers avoid all nonessential travel to Wuhan, China," the agency said Thursday.

The announcement came after Chinese officials scheduled a public transportation lockdown for all of the city's buses, ferries and subways. Airport and railway stations were "temporarily closed" for departing passengers, Wuhan authorities said.

The CDC recommends that travelers "remain alert if traveling to other parts of China" by avoiding contact with sick people, animals and animal markets.

For those who traveled to China in the past two weeks and have symptoms such as fever, cough or trouble breathing, the agency recommends seeking immediate care, avoiding contact with others, not traveling and practicing proper hygiene.

"At this time, it's unclear how easily or sustainably this virus is spreading between people," the CDC says.

What airports are doing

Three of those US airports -- John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, Los Angeles International Airport and San Francisco International Airport -- are already checking those incoming passengers for symptoms such as fever, cough and trouble breathing.

By the end of this week, two more airports will screen passengers -- Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport and Chicago O'Hare International Airport.

Officials at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport put up signs at the international arrivals area instructing travelers from Wuhan to watch for symptoms of the virus. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention started displaying the sign in English and Chinese on January 14, an airport spokesman said.

What scientists are doing

Across the US, scientists are trying to create a vaccine for the new virus. But don't expect it anytime soon.

The National Institutes of Health is working on one, but it will take at least a few months before clinical trials start and more than a year until a vaccine might actually become available.

Separately, scientists in Texas, New York and China are also trying to create on a vaccine, said Dr. Peter Hotez, a vaccine scientist at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston.

But the challenge is daunting.

"The lesson we've learned is coronavirus infections are serious and one of the newest and biggest global health threats," Hotez said.

What you can do yourself

Other symptoms of this coronavirus include fever and shortness of breath. Severe cases can lead to pneumonia, kidney failure and even death.

Anyone with underlying medical conditions should avoid live animal markets and raw meats altogether, since those people are "considered at higher risk of severe disease," the World Health Organization says.

That includes washing your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.

If you're the one feeling sick, cover your mouth and nose when you cough or sneeze, and disinfect the objects and surfaces you touch.

What could happen next

That designation would include global recommendations for helping stop the virus.

But WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus postponed the decision.

"The decision about whether or not to declare a public health emergency of international concern is one I take extremely seriously, and one I am only prepared to make with appropriate consideration of all the evidence," he said Wednesday evening.

"This an evolving and complex situation."

WHO officials are expected to meet again Thursday to continue the discussion.