Pharmacies run out of face masks amid bushfires and coronavirus fears 
 A shortage of face masks has been reported in Brisbane, with several pharmacies running out of stock.

Pharmaceutical Society of Australia Queensland president Chris Campbell said there had been increased demand for face masks following bushfires across the country and more recently, coronavirus fears.

But he said he was not concerned about the shortage and people should not treat face masks as a "panacea".

For those using masks because of low air quality, Mr Campbell said the general advice was for people who felt at risk to avoid those areas if they could.

"It's not necessarily the mask that's going to be the solution for them — there's other things that they can do," he said.

A typical paper mask is not able to filter out air pollution or bushfire smoke. A P2 filter mask available in most hardware stores can help, but it must have a good seal.

Mr Campbell said for those concerned about disease, hand hygiene should be the biggest priority.

"Keep up that hand hygiene, and by that it's just making sure we're always washing our hands if we've been in areas with contact with other people," he said.

The World Health Organisation (WHO) also recommended hand hygiene as well as people sneezing and coughing into their elbow as the main ways to protect against coronavirus.

Mr Campbell said the disease was a "watch and wait" situation.

He said anyone concerned they might have been infected should seek medical advice.

Mr Campbell said he could not be sure when stocks of face masks in Queensland would return to normal but said no-one should panic about it.

"Number one is to stay as informed as possible — if they are unsure, do check with their local pharmacist or GP," he said.

"We're lucky to be able to have the information at our fingertips that's sent out, particularly in Queensland with our chief health officer keeping us up to date on what they know, where the risks are, and how to mitigate them.

Seventeen people have died of coronavirus in China, with fears the newly identified respiratory illness could spread to Australia.

So far it has spread to surrounding Asian countries and to one man in the United States.

Meanwhile, Australia's top pollution experts are teaming up to propose a major new study into the long-term health impacts of bushfire smoke.

Researchers hope to conduct a range of studies, including human tests to see how effective P2 masks are and toxicology tests to see how smoke particles affect the bloodstream.

To date, the closest comparable study available in Australia is an academic paper on the Hazelwood coal fire in 2014.

The Australian Medical Association (AMA) warned prolonged exposure to toxic smoke could affect the health of many Australians.

In a recent statement, AMA president Tony Bartone described the length and density of smoke exposure as "a new, and possibly fatal, health risk" most Australians had not faced before.