Earnings from Comcast, Airlines & More, Plus a Cheap Tech Stock to Buy - Free Lunch 
 On today’s episode of Free Lunch here at Zacks, Associate Stock Strategist Ben Rains dives into quarterly earnings results from Comcast CMCSA, Southwest Airlines LUV, American Airlines AAL, and more. We then look at why Pure Storage, Inc. PSTG is a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy) stock right now, as it trades under $20 a share.

Stocks around the world fell Thursday, as worries about the coronavirus spread. The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 2.8% after the Chinese government locked down Wuhan and two other cities, to try to prevent the spread of the virus that has already killed at least 17 people.

Meanwhile, U.S. homes sales picked up in December and home-builder sentiment was higher than it has been during any month since 1999.

On the earnings front, Wall Street is worried about Southwest and American Airlines’ continued exposure to Boeing’s BA 737 Max. Procter & Gamble PG and rival Kimberly Clark KMB both reported their quarterly results.

Plus, Comcast proved that it is able to grow despite the continued loss of pay-TV customers in the cord-cutting age. The firm is also ready to enter the streaming market with the launch of Peacock later this year to challenge the likes of Netflix NFLX, Disney DIS, and others.

Intel INTC is set to report after the closing bell Thursday. Looking further ahead, Apple AAPL, Microsoft MSFT, Facebook FB, Amazon AMZN, and many other giants are all set to report their quarterly earnings results next week.

The episode then closes with a look at why Pure Storage is a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy).

Biggest Tech Breakthrough in a Generation



Be among the early investors in the new type of device that experts say could impact society as much as the discovery of electricity. Current technology will soon be outdated and replaced by these new devices. In the process, it’s expected to create 22 million jobs and generate $12.3 trillion in activity.



A select few stocks could skyrocket the most as rollout accelerates for this new tech. Early investors could see gains similar to buying Microsoft in the 1990s. Zacks’ just-released special report reveals 8 stocks to watch. The report is only available for a limited time.



See 8 breakthrough stocks now>>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report

 

Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

American Airlines Group Inc. (AAL) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Pure Storage, Inc. (PSTG) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Kimberly-Clark Corporation (KMB) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

The Walt Disney Company (DIS) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Netflix, Inc. (NFLX) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Facebook, Inc. (FB) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

The Boeing Company (BA) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Comcast Corporation (CMCSA) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Apple Inc. (AAPL) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Microsoft Corporation (MSFT) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Procter & Gamble Company (The) (PG) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Intel Corporation (INTC) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

To read this article on Zacks.com click here.

 

Zacks Investment Research