China virus ‘cover-up’ as docs ‘refuse to test patients’ & damning info deleted 
 FEARS of a coronavirus cover up are growing after Wuhan authorities failed to stop the spread of the bug and officials deleted damning online posts.

Latest figures suggest the number of cases in China has now risen to 616 with at least 17 confirmed to have died.

And with the virus spreading all over the world – including six suspected cases in the UK – questions are being asked about how local authorities in Wuhan dealt with the outbreak in recent weeks.

The central Chinese city, which has a population of 11 million, is the epicentre of the crisis with the virus believed to have originated from snakes at a live animal market in December.

Guan Yi, a Hong Kong–based infectious disease expert, believes a “bigger” outbreak is certain while accusing officials in mainland China of a “dereliction of duty.”

The expert, who helped identify another coronavirus named SARS in 2003, says “we have passed through the ‘golden period’ for prevention and control.”

He told Caixin: “What’s more, we’ve got the holiday traffic rush and a dereliction of duty from certain officials.”

Last week, it emerged that the bug can be passed from human to human – yet authorities in Wuhan only locked down its transport links TODAY.

And rumours of a cover-up have gained traction online.

According to the Washington Post, Wuhan Railway deleted a social media post from January 15 that said 300,000 people left the city.

As distrust with the government mounts, there are suspicions that such official posts have been deleted to shield the public from the true extent of the outbreak.

China is celebrating Lunar New Year this Saturday – a holiday which has been called the “world’s largest migration” with billions of trips normally expected.

There are concerns that the virus could spread even more rapidly as a result.

Wuhan suddenly announced its travel ban at 2.30am local time this morning while most of its residents were asleep.

This has been interpreted by some as a sign of panic by the city’s health authorities.

Officials in Wuhan have told locals to stay indoors and have ordered them to wear face masks when outside.

However, the People’s Daily – the government’s propaganda outlet – posted on social media that the province was running low on masks and other protective clothing.

That online post was also eventually deleted.

There are also damning stories from Wuhan of medics in recent weeks failing to test patients who were clearly showing signs of the illness.

Kyle Hui told the New York Times that despite his stepmother having the correct symptoms, including a cough and a fever, doctors wearing hazmat suits refused to test her for the virus.

He said she died on January 15 and that her death certificate says "severe pneumonia" rather than coronavirus.

And while she has not been recorded as one of the official victims of the bug, Mr Hui claims doctors told him to cremate his stepmother's body because they suspected she had the disease.

Now several major cities, including the capital Beijing, have followed Wuhan in banning public gathering during the New Year celebrations.

This is another sign that China is expanding its efforts to contain the virus which started last month – but is it too little too late?

Many residents in Wuhan think so.

Social media users in the city have blasted authorities on Weibo for waiting weeks to put the metropolis on lockdown.

Xiao, 26, a primary school teacher in Wuhan, told The Guardian: "When I saw the news when I woke up, I felt like I was going to go crazy. This is a little too late now. The government’s measures are not enough."

Others criticised local authorities on the social media platform Weibo as #PrayforWuhan was trending.

One said: "It’s been a month since the first case was discovered and only now do they think of closing the city? This Wuhan emergency response is a little slow, right???"

Another added: "The government needs to address this. If things become too expensive, people will definitely panic and when people feel unsafe, terrible things happen. Right now people are fighting over supplies, soon they may just be fighting.”

Locals have shared images of their stockpiles of instant noodles and snacks on the social media platform Weibo.

One wrote: "No more going out ... so I won’t get sick. Hope Wuhan can get some support soon."

It is unusual of citizens to express such outrage at the Chinese government on the country's microblogging site.

Supermarket shelves are empty as residents have started stockpiling goods to keep themselves isolated at home to avoid contracting the virus.

Cake Liu left Wuhan last week after visiting her boyfriend there and said everything was normal then, things have changed rapidly.

She said: "(My boyfriend) didn't sleep much yesterday. He disinfected his house and stocked up on instant noodles. He's not really going out. If he does he wears a mask."

Police, SWAT teams and paramilitary troops have been out on the streets patrolling the railway stations as authorities have banned travelling on subways and ferries.

The airport and train stations have been shut down to outgoing passengers travelling after 10am local time.

Petrol stations have been rammed with motorists trying to get as much fuel as possible amid rumours reserves had run out.

Pharmacies have sold out of face masks, residents said.

An Irish teacher in Wuhan has describe the city as a "ghost town" as he's been hold up in his flat.

Ben Kavanagh told RTE Radio’s Morning Ireland: “You are allowed out, but there are so many rumours and people are worried, it’s better not to.

I have enough water for a few more days, but I will probably have to head out to the shops for food.

“I have no idea what to expect."

Seven million people in Huanggang, which is 45 miles away, have been told not to leave after there were confirmed cases.