Brit mum of baby boy with strain of coronavirus describes terrifying symptoms 
 A mum whose baby boy is battling a strain of coronavirus has described the terrifying symptoms but urged other parents not to panic.

Amy Brooks' six-month-old boy James spent five days in hospital after catching a form of the virus which broke out in the Chinese city of Wuhan.

It has claimed the lives of at least 17 and tonight it was confirmed that five cases of suspected coronavirus have been identified in Scotland, while one person is being treated in Belfast.

But 27-year-old Amy - who admits she was "scared" by her tot's breathing when he picked up the virus - has spoken out about her relief as it turned out James had picked up a mild strain of the virus.

Amy told the Echo: "He was really congested but what scared me was his breathing, it was really laboured.

"He hadn't eaten for 24 hours so we took him in to Whiston Hospital A&E."

Amy, from Widnes, in Cheshire, then went on to Alder Hey Children's Hospital in Liverpool.

Hey baby was fitted with a feeding tube and mucus was drained.

After five days, doctors revealed tests had detected coronavirus and bronchiolitis.

She said: "When I found out he had coronavirus I had a shock. But what they said was there are different strains and this one wasn't one of the ones that had come from animals.

"A lot of them are no different from the common cold, and I don't think a lot of people understand that."

Coronavirus is a family of viruses and some of them are almost identical in symptoms to the common cold.

While the new strain which has broken out in China is a killer, Amy wants to reassure other parents that, although it took around eight weeks to shake off the virus, James is now back to normal.

He even got the chance to meet Liverpool FC stars in Alder Hey - including Mo Salah and Allisson Becker.

Five people who travelled to the UK from the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak are being tested in Scotland after showing signs of the SARS-like infection.

The outbreak has spread from China - which has confirmed 634 cases - to Thailand, South Korea, Japan, Singapore, Taiwan and the United States.

Prof Juergen Haas, head of infection medicine at Edinburgh University, said there were three suspected cases in Edinburgh and the other is believed to be in Glasgow.

This afternoon it emerged that another man is being treated in an isolation ward at the Royal Victoria Hospital in Belfast.

Amid a growing sense of panic, the Chinese government has banned all travel from Wuhan, a city of 11 million people, and cancelled Chinese New Year events in the capital Beijing.

Dr Nick Phin, deputy director of Public Health England's National Infection Service, said: "This is a new and rapidly evolving situation where information on cases and the virus is being gathered and assessed daily.

"Based on the available evidence, the current risk to the UK is considered low. We are working with the World Health Organisation and other international partners, have issued advice to the NHS and are keeping the situation under constant review.

"If you are traveling to Wuhan, you should maintain good hand, respiratory and personal hygiene and should avoid visiting animal and bird markets or people who are ill with respiratory symptoms.

"Individuals should seek medical attention if they develop respiratory symptoms within 14 days of visiting Wuhan, either in China or on their return to the UK. They should phone ahead before attending any health services and mention their recent travel to the city."q