Residents left in Wuhan — which China quarantined to stop the coronavirus — are desperately stockpiling food and fuel, leaving empty shelves and prices skyrocketing 
 People left in the Chinese city of Wuhan are stockpiling food and fuel, and avoiding the streets, after authorities sealed off the city of 11 million people to try and prevent the spread of a mysterious coronavirus that has killed at least 17 people.

The 2019-nCoV virus, first recorded in December 2019, has spread from the city to other parts of China, infecting 571 people in the country as of Thursday morning, as well as in other countries.

Authorities closed off transport links to the city, which is a major travel hub, on Thursday morning. They are effectively sealing the city off in an attempt to stop a further spread during the Chinese New Year holiday when hundreds of millions of Chinese people travel.

Everyone left in the city are now scrambling to stockpile essential goods, with residents reporting massive lines and skyrocketed prices.

Some residents posted on social media complaining of surging prices for goods, empty shelves, and long lines to buy things, Reuters reported.

"Everyone is on a buying spree," wrote one user on microblogging site Weibo, accompanying his post with an image of a long line at a checkout aisle, according to Reuters.

Several other residents told the news agency that people were rushing to stockpile supplies, leaving supermarket shelves empty of things like meat, vegetables and instant noodles.

And The Guardian reported that one another Weibo user posted an image of the food they bought and wrote: "No more going out ... so I won't get sick. Hope Wuhan can get some support soon."

Petrol stations were "overwhelmed," with people spreading false rumors that fuel reserves had run out, The Guardian added. A resident told Reuters that he had to line up for an hour to fill up his car.

Local pharmacies have also run out of face masks, which residents are now being required to wear, The Guardian reported.

Apartment buildings were also being disinfected, with many residents saying they plan leaving the house as little as possible, The Guardian reported.

One teacher told the outlet: "When I saw the news when I woke up, I felt like I was going to go crazy. This is a little too late now. The government's measures are not enough."

She said she had not left her house since January 19. "Infected people could be right beside you and you wouldn't know. That is what is scarier," she said.

The stockpiling has led to concerns that it could lead to further social unrest.

One Wuhan resident wrote on Weibo, according to The Guardian:  "The government needs to address this. If things become too expensive, people will definitely panic and when people feel unsafe, terrible things happen."