Does a face mask help protect against coronavirus? Experts weigh in 
 With a new, potentially fatal strain of coronavirus spreading rapidly worldwide, we’re likely to see many more people walking around with masks over their faces. Do they help?At last count – and it’s rising quickly – at least 440 people had contracted the disease in China, and 600 worldwide. It has killed 17 people. The city of Wuhan had been quarantined, with travel forbidden into, out of and within it. The virus has shown up in Europe, the U.S. and Asia. Experts say that masks can play a role in stemming the spread, but not in the way we might think. There’s no need to rush out and buy one unless you’re actually taking care of a coronavirus patient — or have it yourself.“Any time you have a barrier, a mask, it’s kind of a barrier that will reduce the transmission of droplets, and the virus particles that the droplets carry,” Debra Chew, an assistant professor of medicine at Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, told the Daily News. “It does help to prevent the virus from disseminating in the environment. “Masks come into play for those taking care of someone who is afflicted, said Chew, who is also the medical director for infection prevention and control at University Hospital in Newark and a former Epidemic Intelligence Officer for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).“The protection comes more from if the infected people wear the masks,” Chew said. “It can help people from spreading coronavirus to healthy people.”Masks help people not spread the virus by protecting others from the spray of sneezes and coughs.“It has to be pretty close contact at this point,” Chew said, for someone to contract coronavirus. “And somebody is more at risk if somebody’s coughing a lot.”Even more effective than masks, experts say, is regular hand-washing, coughing or sneezing into one’s elbow rather than sharing with the entire subway car, and other commonsense measures that people typically employ during flu season and beyond.In addition, the term “human-to-human” transmission is not synonymous with airborne – so the type of contact that a mask would protect against is not necessarily the way this virus moves from person to person.But masks do play a role especially for people who are in close contact with a coronavirus patient. Only those who have coronavirus and those coming into direct contact with them need wear a mask, the CDC says. If caring for someone with coronavirus one should wear a specially fitted mask that filters out smaller particles.“At this time, the size of the coronavirus particles is unknown,” reported NBC News. For comparison, the SARS virus – which is from the same family – is 0.1 microns in diameter, the network said.In short, just keep doing what you’re doing – as long as that means washing hands frequently, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and getting enough sleep – things that help protect against any respiratory or other illness – especially if you’re traveling, experts said.“Travelers should follow standard recommendations to reduce exposure to and spread of a range of infections,” Chew said in a separate statement. “This includes washing hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and water are not available, covering your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve — not your hands — when coughing or sneezing and avoiding close contact, if possible, with anyone showing symptoms of a respiratory illness, such as coughing and sneezing.”