Hong Kong, Macau report more coronavirus infections 
 HONG KONG (Kyodo) -- Health authorities in Hong Kong and Macau on Thursday reported more confirmed cases in the territories of a new coronavirus that has spread in China and forced the epicenter city of Wuhan to suspend transport services.

DNA tests on two "highly suspected" cases of infection in Hong Kong came back positive, the Health Department said Thursday, officially confirming the infections.

They are a 39-year-old Chinese man who traveled with his family from Wuhan to Hong Kong via express rail late Tuesday. He was intercepted by port health officials for having a fever and sent to hospital.

The other is a 56-year-old Hong Kong man who took a flight from Wuhan to Shenzhen and then the MTR subway to Hong Kong on Sunday. He stayed in a hotel on Monday before being admitted to hospital the next day with a light fever.

At least seven people considered close contacts of the cases, including the Hong Kong man's wife and medical staff, have been placed in a quarantine center for monitoring or under medical surveillance, health officials said.

"We have been able to detect and isolate patients at a very early stage," Center for Health Protection Controller Wong Ka-hing said. With regard to the Hong Kong patient, the risk of transmission to the community is not high, he said.

Wuhan-bound flights will be suspended from Friday through the end of February, the city's major air carrier Cathay Dragon said. Ticket sales for Wuhan-bound express rail services were also suspended until further notice, the rail operator said.

In Macau, health authorities said a 67-year-old man from Wuhan who arrived in the gambling city Wednesday was confirmed as the second imported case of coronavirus infection, following a 52-year-old Chinese businesswoman who arrived in Macau Sunday.

Both of them remain in stable condition, the authorities said.

Macau leader Ho Iat Seng said most celebratory events including carnivals and fireworks displays during the Lunar New Year holidays have been canceled to lower the risk of infection among people.

Wuhan authorities suspended all public transport on Thursday to prevent the spread of the virus, believed to have originated there. It has killed around 20 people and infected hundreds in the country.