Shortland Street's Scott Smart shows Marty Walker is more than a pretty face 
 He was dubbed Shorty's McDreamy just a few months ago but this week life took a nightmarish turn for Ferndale's newest doc, Marty Walker.

The newcomer's status plunged from hero to zero when oversharing with a patient's wife led to her attempting suicide, putting the so-called Dr Hottie – played by Scott Smart – on the outer with his workmates.

Smart – who joined Shortland Street in September – is relishing the opportunity to show his character is more than just a pretty face.

"It's an interesting change, I think, seeing the other side of the committed nature of Marty and that it doesn't always turn out in the best result," he says, adding viewers have a lot more to learn about the dedicated but troubled doctor. "There's still a few layers to go, I think."

READ MORE:

 * Shortland Street: Strumpet Queen Leanne returns, leaving Damo in a pickle

 * Shortland Street recap: Creepy Tim levels up ahead of Christmas cliffhanger 

 * Shortland Street: Chris Warner is about to be a grandaddy

 * Shortland Street's new Dr Hottie

It's good news for the Canterbury-raised actor, who moved back to New Zealand from Australia – where he appeared in shows including Neighbours and Winners and Losers – for the Shorty role.

Marty literally blew into the hospital, arriving in the ED with an injured leg just as Ferndale was lashed by the tail end of a cyclone and and, keen to help out the obviously overloaded medical staff, he stitched up his own wound before pitching in to help the overloaded medical team.

The revelation he was a recent widower who'd lost his wife Lisa to a mysterious strain of influenza cemented his popularity with his co-workers and the show's fans.

However, when patients start showing up at ED suffering the same symptoms as his late wife – ironically, in a storyline echoing the coronavirus currently sweeping China - Marty switches into overdrive and becomes over zealous in his treatment, alienating his co-workers in the process. When a second patient, Isaac (Dancing With The Stars' Walter Nielands) dies in a week, he goes too far in his attempt to comfort the man's widow Chloe (Jane Wills).

Smart says Marty shares his own experiences following Lisa's death with the new widow and is horrified when she is rushed into ED, having intentionally stepped in front of a bus.

"That was just another gut punch. I think Marty basically tried to share his grief with Chloe to try to help her and then Chloe went ahead and did that so it was really, really not what he expected," he says. "He thought he was helping and he really wasn't."

However, Smart doesn't think even that will be enough to stop Marty's determination to find out what is behind the killer virus sweeping Ferndale.

"He is just wanting to get to the bottom of what it is and prevent it from happening or at least stop it from going from flu to death," Smart says, admitting the emergency department is probably not the healthiest work place for the young doctor.

Smart, who also has a Masters in Biotechnology and has worked and studied alongside doctors, says while he doesn't know of any cases like Marty's, he has seen their commitment.

"The over dedication, the exhaustion, the shift work, the over investment, I think, is something that seems to be common among all the doctors and nurses I know," he says. "So I think that side of it, the level of investment is an interesting thing that the writers are exploring. It much easier just to be a fake doctor."