Administration to give Senate briefing on coronavirus 
 Senators are set to hear from top federal health officials Friday regarding the outbreak of the new coronavirus originating in China.

The administration’s briefing will be jointly hosted by the Senate Health and Foreign Relations committees, the panels said in a joint statement on Thursday.

"The novel coronavirus is an emerging public health threat. Senators will have the opportunity to hear directly from senior government health officials regarding what we know about the virus so far, and how our country is prepared to respond as the situation develops," Health Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander Andrew (Lamar) Lamar AlexanderOvernight Health Care: Trump restores funding for Texas program that bars Planned Parenthood | Trump to attend March for Life | PhRMA spent record on 2019 lobbying Coalition of conservative groups to air ads against bipartisan proposal to end 'surprise' medical bills Senate braces for bitter fight over impeachment rules MORE (R-Tenn.) and ranking member Patty Murray Patricia (Patty) Lynn MurrayConservative groups aim to sink bipartisan fix to 'surprise' medical bills Democrats request briefing on intel behind Trump's embassy threat claim Democrats ask if US citizens were detained at border checkpoints due to Iranian national origin MORE (D-Wash.) said.

Earlier Thursday, Sen. Edward Markey Edward (Ed) John MarkeyParnas pressure grows on Senate GOP Sanders defends vote against USMCA: 'Not a single damn mention' of climate change The Hill's Morning Report — President Trump on trial MORE (D-Mass.), ranking member on the Foreign Relations Committee, asked the departments of Health and Human Services and State for answers on their responses to the virus, which was officially detected in the United States for the first time last week, after infecting more than 500 people in China and killing at least 17.

The risk to the broader American public is considered low, but the situation is still evolving.

Chinese authorities have responded by locking down three cities with a combined population of about 18 million people, including the transit hub of Wuhan, where the outbreak is thought to have originated.

The State Department and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued a travel advisory for China earlier Thursday, urging people to seek medical help if they feel sick after traveling in the affected area.

Meanwhile, the World Health Organization on Thursday declined to declare a public health emergency over the virus, but said it recognizes the potential danger for China if it continues spreading.