Number of people tested for deadly Coronavirus disease in UK rises to 14 
 Fourteen people in the UK have been tested for coronavirus with five confirmed negative and nine still awaiting the results, Public Health England said tonight.

It comes after it emerged six people in the UK, believed to be Chinese nationals, were being tested earlier today for the bug after returning from the Wuhan region where the outbreak started.

Two are in Glasgow, one in ­Edinburgh and two more in ­undisclosed areas of Scotland.

At least one is thought to have flown in via London. Another suspected case is in Belfast.

Four NHS trusts in the capital have been put on standby to receive patients.

And Health Secretary Matt Hancock has insisted Britain can cope with any outbreak.

The warning about an epidemic here was issued after 18 deaths were confirmed in China and 571 cases of coronavirus, which started at a live food market in Wuhan.

Have you been affected by coronavirus? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk

Officials put the city of 11 million people in lockdown, amid fears of a global pandemic – as ­thousands of people may be infected who do not yet have symptoms.

There are around 120,000 Chinese students in the UK. University of ­Edinburgh head of infection Professor Jurgen Haas warned the six suspected cases so far could be the first of many.

He added: “The situation will be pretty similar in pretty much all UK cities with a large number of Chinese students.

“It’s not too surprising. My ­suspicious is that there will ­probably be many more cases in many other cities in the UK.”

A Scottish government spokesman said: “Following travel to Wuhan, China, two people confirmed as diagnosed with ­influenza are now being tested for Wuhan novel coronavirus as a precautionary measure only.

“Three further people are also undergoing testing on a similar precautionary basis.

“As the situation develops we will update should there be any confirmed cases of coronavirus.

“There are currently no confirmed cases of coronavirus in Scotland and the risk to the ­Scottish public remains low.”

Hong Kong has also confirmed its first case, joining Singapore, the US, Japan, South Korea and ­Thailand in having the virus.

Mr Hancock said: “The UK is one of the first countries to have developed a world-leading test for the new coronavirus.

“The NHS is ready to respond appropriately to any cases that emerge. Clinicians have received advice on initial detection and investigation of possible cases, infection ­prevention and control and clinical diagnostics.

“It is important we get the enhanced airport monitoring right. The challenge here is that symptoms do not usually appear for up to 14 days.”

The British Medical ­Association’s Dr Peter Holden warned anybody with flu-like symptoms who fears they may have the virus not to visit A&Es or GP surgeries.

He added: “If you have been to Wuhan then stay at home and ring up.

“Help will be organised to take you to somewhere we can examine you in safety.”