Morning Briefing: Top stories from on Jan 24 
 Good morning! Here are our top stories to kick-start your Friday, Jan 24.



 Guests at Shangri-La's Rasa Sentosa Resort & Spa yesterday. A man from China who is the first to test positive for the Wuhan virus in Singapore had stayed at the resort, said the Health Ministry. ST PHOTO: TIMOTHY DAVID 



The 66-year-old man, a Wuhan resident, arrived in Singapore with nine travelling companions on Monday.



 Commuters wearing face masks as a precautionary measure to protect against the possible spread of the new coronavirus at an MTR station in Hong Kong on Jan 23, 2020. PHOTO: AFP 



“Make no mistake, though, this is an emergency in China. But it has not yet become a global health emergency. It may yet become one,” said WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus.



 Singaporean Eric Kng took one of the last few outbound trains from Wuhan before the city was quarantined on Jan 23, 2020. PHOTOS: COURTESY OF ERIC KNG 



Mr Eric Kng, who has lived in Wuhan for close to four years, said that the situation had escalated dramatically almost overnight.



 Singapore should be a society where families are celebrated and supported, especially young families starting out, said Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, adding that this is why a slew of initiatives has been introduced in the past year to help young families. PHOTO: ST FILE  



As Chinese families in Singapore gather for their reunion dinner this evening, it is a good time to reflect on the importance of strong kindred ties, he says in CNY message.



 Singapore remains the only Asian country placed in the top 10. ST PHOTO: LIM YAOHUI 



Singapore tied with Switzerland and Sweden in its scoring for the second year running.



 Shangri-La Hotel Singapore's kitchen division trainer Mohd Amer Hashim demonstrating how the hotel tackles food wastage using the Winnow system, which weighs and tracks food items left over at buffets and catered meals, and provides data to guide chefs. ST PHOTO: KELVIN CHNG 



During the Chinese New Year period, food waste here has been reported to go up by 20 per cent.



 Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has said that Singapore has to look after its own people and make sure that all the good things happening in the world benefit not just Singapore, but also Singaporeans. ST PHOTO: CHONG JUN LIANG 



It is important to ensure that the system of open borders and free trade continues to work for everyone, writes ST editor Warren Fernandez from Davos.



 Rohingya refugees at the Thet Kel Pyin internally displaced persons camp in Sittwe, Rakhine state. PHOTO: EPA-EFE 



The International Court of Justice said the group is at 'serious risk of genocide' and that the government must exercise influence over its military.



 Jalan Hang Jebat residents Jean-Luc Amerasinghe (left, front row), with his father Brian Amerasinghe, neighbour David Santhanansamy, Mr Santhanansamy's wife Esther Jane De Rozario, and Mr Amerasinghe's wife Iris Tan Lay Lan, outside their houses with their pet dogs. ST PHOTO: CHONG JUN LIANG 



Another slice of old Singapore could disappear with the colonial-era terraced houses in Jalan Hang Jebat near Portsdown Avenue possibly being replaced by new homes.



 Junior The Pocket Bar's month-long concept, called House of the Dancing Lion, features drinks such as (from left) Guaranteed Abundance, Fanning the Flames and Rolling for Prosperity. ST PHOTO: ALPHONSUS CHERN 



Sip on pineapple tart-inspired and bak kwa-flavoured CNY cocktails at Junior the Pocket Bar.