US investigates second suspected coronavirus case | DW | 23.01.2020 
 Health officials in Texas said Thursday that they are testing a university student for the newly discovered coronavirus that has killed 18 people in China and sickened some 650 others, raising fears of a global health emergency.

The student in question, who is enrolled at Texas A&M University in the southeast of the state, had recently traveled to Wuhan, the Chinese city at the center of the outbreak that has been placed on lockdown to prevent the virus from spreading further.

"The patient got sick with a respiratory illness within two weeks of travel in Wuhan, China," Texas health officials said in a statement confirming their investigation into the possible presence of the virus in the student.

If tests come back positive, it would mark the second diagnosed case of the illness in the United States. A man in Washington state who was diagnosed with the illness earlier this week is said to be in satisfactory condition.

The US Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), which is coordinating testing of the student, cautioned that the student's case could be a false alarm. The symptoms of the coronavirus include fever, shortness of breath and coughing, which can overlap with seasonal flu and cold symptoms.

Texas health officials said test results were expected within two days, and the CDC said it would announce a positive case immediately. In the meantime, the patient is being held in isolation.

On Friday, Japan's health ministry confirmed a second case of coronavirus infection in a man who had been living in Wuhan. The man, who is receiving treatment in Tokyo, said he had been wearing a medical mask during his travels.

Other cases have been reported in Tawain, Hong Kong, Thailand, Vietnam and South Korea.

Chinese officials have scrambled to contain the virus, which has hit during the high-travel season of the Chinese Lunar New Year. Officials are the World Health Organization (WHO), who are closely monitoring the situation, have warned of a potential public health emergency. Airports have begun screening passengers for the virus.

Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.