Fear, anger and lockdowns: What life is like in China amid deadly coronavirus outbreak 
 Three cities in China are placed into lockdown with travel restrictions in place.

Amid a deadly virus outbreak, a Chinese city that's bigger than New York went into lockdown.

Hoards of people were seen desperately trying to flee Wuhan in one video.

Cars lined roads and came to a standstill in front of toll booths as the city's transport services were suspended.

At least Seventeen people have died and hundreds are sick amid the widening and deadly coronavirus outbreak that's bringing China to a standstill.

Wuhan is one of five cities that's gone into lockdown as a result of the pneumonia-like virus, with panicked people taking to the roads to try and avoid getting caught in quarantine, The Washington Post reported.

READ MORE:

 * Coronavirus: World Health Organisation says virus not a global health emergency

 * Coronavirus: Cities in China shut down, four people tested in Scotland

 * First case of deadly Chinese coronavirus in US

 * Coronavirus: Chinese officials urge people not to travel in and out of Wuhan

Video showed health workers in hazmat suits taking motorists' temperatures alongside police and militia, as drivers waited at toll booths.

According to The Washington Post some people even resorted to extreme measures to escape the travel ban.

One man who couldn't get a taxi to the train station managed to convince a food delivery guy to give him a lift on his scooter, paying him $72 for the trip.

A sense of panic spread throughout the city on Thursday as transport services were halted and people were also advised to stay indoors.

People have reportedly been left fearful and angry during the quarantine, with Lunar New Year events also cancelled.

A Wuhan resident posted on social media site Weibo saying that people were on the "verge of tears" when they heard about the closures, the BBC reported.

That panic seeped into grocery stores and markets, with shelves emptied as people stocked up on supplies.

While in some areas the price of food had reportedly spiked, with cabbages selling for double the usual amount, The Washington Post reported.

According to The Guardian, some residents had posted photos of their newly bought supplies of instant noodles and snacks on social media. "No more going out … so I won't get sick," wrote one person on Weibo, adding: "Hope Wuhan can get some support soon."

As people hunker down indoors, few can be seen in the usually bustling city streets. Those who do venture to public spaces are required to wear face masks, although there were reports that some pharmacies had even sold out of face mask,The Guardian stated.

There were also reports of people disinfecting their apartments as a precautionary measure.

Nearby, Huanggang and Ezhou also announced they were shutting down travel networks - effectively confining some 20 million people.

Although more than 600 people in China have fallen ill from the fast-spreading infection, The World Health Organisation says the viral illness is not yet a global health emergency.

The pneumonia-like virus was first connected to people who visited a food market in Wuhan, with it then spreading quickly to the surrounding Hubei province.

Its symptoms are similar to that of a common cold: runny nose, cough, sore throat, as well as potentially headaches and fevers.

Speaking to the BBC a doctor at Wuhan hospital described the rapid spread of the virus as "alarming".

"I am scared because this is a new virus and the figures are alarming. The hospitals have been flooding with patients, there are thousands, I haven't seen so many before.

"They have to wait for hours before they see a doctor - you can imagine their panic."

The Daily Mail also reported that there were plans in the pipeline to build an emergency hospital in Wuhan in just six days, that would be dedicated to the outbreak.

Reportedly, the institution would be modelled on a temporary treatment centre which was built in seven days in Beijing during the 2003 SARS outbreak, The Daily Mail reported.

In New Zealand, there are currently no travel or boarder restrictions to date.

Although thermal screening had been implemented at several border control areas around the world to detect travellers with fevers, no screening precautions had been put in place here.

On Wednesday, the Ministry of Health said it was keeping a close watch on developments and has been in frequent communication with the health and border sector to give advice.

In France, citizens have been urged to comply with airport coronavirus checks after a woman from Wuhan said she had evaded screenings, The Guardian reported.

The woman posted on social media saying that took fever medicine to mask flu-like symptoms to bypass temperature checks. She has since been contacted by French officials, The Guardian reported.