Coronavirus death toll rises to 170 as first case is reported in Finland 
 Finland has become the latest country to confirm their first case of coronavirus as the death toll continues to rise.

The news comes as China’s National Health Commission said 170 people have died and 7,711 people have been infected by the new coronavirus in the country.

The World Health Organisation (WHO) warned on Wednesday that ‘the whole world’ needs to be prepared to cope with the fatal virus amid the new cases.

Finnish health officials revealed a Chinese woman had been tested positive, after travelling to Lapland from the epicentre of the outbreak, Wuhan.

She has since been quarantined in hospital, while some 15 other people may have been exposed in the country, said health officials.

The European country joins Germany, which has four confirmed cases, while France announced its fifth victim – the daughter of a Chinese tourist in Paris – on Wednesday.

The UAE became the first country in the Middle East to reveal the virus had entered the country on Wednesday, after a family of four Chinese tourists tested positive.

However, an Emirati doctor said the first to fall ill only showed symptoms after spending more than a week on the holiday.

Australia and Singapore are also among the countries reporting new cases, as the number outside China topped 70.

Earlier today the WHO expressed grave concerns over the virus, adding that one in five cases are leading to severe disease, such as pneumonia, or were causing death.

The virus has now infected more people in China than fell ill during the 2002-2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars) outbreak.

The total number of positive cases has surpassed the 5,327 people diagnosed with Sars.

Scientists say there are still many questions to be answered about coronavirus, including how easily it spreads and how severe it is.

The World Health Organisation’s (WHO) emergencies chief told reporters that China was taking ‘extraordinary measures in the face of an extraordinary challenge’ posed by the outbreak.

Speaking at a conference, Dr Michael Ryan said the epidemic remains centred in the city of Wuhan and in Hubei province but that ‘information is being updated and is changing by the hour’.

Mr Ryan said the few cases of human-to-human spread of the virus outside China – in Japan, Germany and Vietnam – were part of the reason the UN health agency’s director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has reconvened an expert committee to meet on Thursday.

It will assess whether the outbreak should be declared a global emergency.

To date, about 99 per cent of the cases are in China. Mr Ryan estimated the death rate of the new virus at 2 per cent, but said the figure was very preliminary.

With fluctuating numbers of cases and deaths, scientists are only able to produce a rough estimate of the fatality rate and it is likely many milder cases of the virus are being missed.

In comparison, the Sars virus killed about 10 per cent of people who caught it.

Mr Ryan noted there were several aspects of the new virus outbreak that are extremely worrying, citing the recent rapid spike in cases in China. He said that while scientists believe the outbreak was sparked by an animal virus, it is unclear if there are other factors driving the epidemic.

‘Without understanding that, it’s very hard to put into context the current transmission dynamics,’ he said.