Coronavirus evacuation form not authorised by DFAT 
 Chinese-Australians in Wuhan have been advised that an online evacuation "notification" form circulating on social media has not been authorised or issued by the Australian Government.

A link to the registration form has been widely shared on WeChat, titled Chinese Australian in Wuhan, with the accompanying text:

"Please share this as much as you can, let Chinese-Australian citizens and permanent residents fill out this form as soon as possible. Although the epidemic situation is now under control, the situation remains grim. All the information collected is only used for notification purposes of the epidemic situation and the evacuation for overseas Chinese Australians. The information will be destroyed immediately after the epidemic situation is over and will not be retained."

In a statement to the ABC, a DFAT spokesperson confirmed the form was not an official document.

They advised Australians to monitor the Smart Traveller website for updates, or call the department's consular emergency line on 1300 555 135 (+61 2 6261 3305 from overseas).

Moko Yong — an Australian citizen currently stranded in Wuchang, a district of Wuhan — told the ABC he had authored the form.

"The original intention of setting up this form was to contact people quickly and count the number of Chinese Australians when evacuating," Mr Yong said.

He said the form was only to "prepare" the evacuation of Australians in the city, and said the information would be "destroyed immediately" after an evacuation.

Mr Yong said the data would be "destroyed immediately after the evacuation and the epidemic situation is over without any backup, storage and transfer".

When asked about criticism that his form risked people's privacy, he claimed it did not "obtain any information related to privacy" as did not require the input of an ID number, birthday, or Australian address.

He told the ABC he intended to pass the information onto the Australian consulate in Sichuan province.

The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) warned that in general people should be cautious about providing personal information online as it could be a precursor to hacking and identity theft.

However the ABC is not suggesting the purpose of this online evacuation form was to trick people into giving up personal information or perpetrate identity theft or hacking.

China has reported 25 more deaths in the coronavirus outbreak as the toll rises to at least 106. The total number of confirmed cases has climbed to more than 4,200 worldwide.

The ABC has confirmed more than 100 Australian children are currently trapped in the area, including Melbourne father Yi Xu and his six-month-old daughter.

Many like him are desperate to go back home, he told the ABC.

"I don't know how many people have filled in that form, but it's understandable because parents are anxious and eager to evacuate their children with the help of DFAT," he said.

"Everybody is trying their best to find ways to make that happen."

Speaking to Melbourne radio station 3AW yesterday, Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne said the number of Australians in Wuhan was still unclear.

"If we are able to support Australians to travel, if they wish to leave, then we would like to do that."

Chinese authorities have implemented harsh new lockdown policies in the Wuhan area, including a ban on using private vehicles from the weekend.

China's Beijing Public Transport Group said it would suspend the majority of bus services into neighbouring Hebei province starting on Tuesday (local time) to contain the spread of coronavirus, according to a statement on its official Weibo account.

Editor's Note — January 30, 2020: An early version of this story incorrectly referred to the evacuation form as an "online scam". It has been amended to reflect Mr Yong's explanation that his motives were only to assist Australian authorities identify Australians in Wuhan.