Apple has temporarily closed 2 more stores in China after already closing one because of the coronavirus 
 Apple has temporarily closed two more of its retail stores in China, a move that comes after the company said it had closed one store in the region to protect employees against the coronavirus. Bloomberg first noticed the additional closures, which are listed on Apple's website.

Three of Apple's retail stores in China are currently closed temporarily: the Rainbow City store located in the Nanjing district, the Tahoe Plaza store in Fuzhou, and the Vientiane City location in Qingdao. The Rainbow City and Tahoe Plaza stores are closed until February 2 and are set to re-open on February 3, while the Qingdao-based store is closed until February 3 and will re-open on February 4.

The closures come after Apple discussed the measures it's taking to protect employees from the coronavirus, which has killed more than 100 people, on its first-quarter earnings call on Tuesday. Apple CEO Tim Cook said the company is deep cleaning its stores in China, checking employee temperatures, and limiting travel to China to "business-critical situations."

"First and foremost, our thoughts are with all of those that are affected across the region," Cook said to analysts during the call. He also said on Twitter on January 25 that Apple would be donating to groups on the ground helping those affected.

Cook and Apple CFO Luca Maestri also said during the earnings call that it has factored uncertainly around how the coronavirus will affect its business into its second-quarter revenue guidance range of $63 billion to $67 billion. Much of Apple's supply chain is based in China.

"The situation is emerging, and we're still gathering lots of data points and monitoring it closely," Cook said during the earnings call.

Apple isn't the only major tech firm taking cautionary measures as the coronavirus spreads. Google, Amazon, Facebook and Microsoft have all halted or limited employee travel to China as well.