Public hospitals in Karachi ill-prepared to deal with threat of coronavirus 
 Public hospitals in Karachi ill-prepared to deal with threat of coronavirus

Despite declaring Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre (JPMC) the focal point for the Novel Coronavirus 2019-nCoV, which has created panic all over the world, the Sindh health department has not provided any medicines and protective material to the health facility or anywhere else in the province, while the World Health Organisation (WHO) has provided some personal protective equipment (PPE) to the JPMC to deal with any emergency.
A day earlier, the health department had designated the JPMC the focal point and asked its executive director, Dr Seemin Jamali, to start training of hospital staffers to deal with the highly contagious viral infection at the earliest.
The health department’s notification issued on Tuesday had also asked the JPMC administration to establish isolation rooms for suspected patients, urgently arrange personal protective equipment, ensure availability of supportive medicine and also arrange viral transport media.
But it emerged on Wednesday that the JPMC and other tertiary-care hospitals in the province were facing an acute shortage of medicines, personal protective equipment and surgical items, including surgical gloves, canolas and implants, hampering the creation of isolation wards.
“The Sindh government has not yet arranged medicines and surgical equipment, items for the hospitals in the province. On the other hand, they have declared the JPMC as the focal point for novel coronavirus that has wreaked havoc in China. At the moment, the JPMC is also facing an acute shortage of medicines and equipment and is unable to deal with any health emergency,” an official of the hospital said.
The official maintained that they were trying to run the emergency of the JPMC and treat patients with whatever resources they had, but the situation in the OPDs and wards was very serious and they were not in a position to handle any health emergency.
“Medicines and surgical equipment, canolas, gloves, syringes and other disposable items are the backbone of a health facility. Without medicines and surgical items, doctors, surgeons and paramedics can only give advice to patients but can’t treat them. At the moment, the JPMC is not been able to deal with any health emergency.”
Infectious diseases’ experts said that as the country was preparing to deal with the threat of a lethal infectious disease like novel coronavirus, health officials needed especially designed personal protective equipment, including complete suits, gloves, goggles, sanitizers and isolation room equipment, but nothing had been provided to any health facility, including the JPMC.
When approached, Executive Director JPMC Dr Seemin Jamali said that on their request, the World Health Organisation had provided them some personal protective equipment, including complete body suits, masks, face shields, sanitizers, gloves and goggles, but they were not in a sufficient quantity as most of these equipment were disposable.
“On our request, WHO has provided us personal protective equipment in a short quantity, but something is better than nothing. What we badly need is supportive medicines and surgical equipment and other items, which have not yet been provided to us”, she said and added that they were in constant touch with the Sindh health department, which had declared the hospital focal point for coronavirus.
The same was the situation at other public health facilities in Karachi which were ill-prepared to deal with any health emergency as no medicines and equipment had been provided to these facilities, including the Civil Hospital Karachi, National Institute of Child Health and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital.
Some private hospitals, however, including the Aga Khan University Hospital, had prepared isolation rooms to keep suspected patients of coronavirus, which has so far killed over 130 people in China, and 15 countries reported to have confirmed cases of Coronavirus.