Coronavirus conspiracy theorists claim drinking bleach can cure deadly disease 
 Bonkers far-right conspiracy theorists have claimed they can cure the deadly coronavirus if they drink bleach.

QAnon - a conspiracy theory group - dubbed the cleaning liquid a “Miracle Mineral Solution” or “MMS” and has also been claimed by them to be a cure for AIDS and autism.

Obviously, doctors and health care professionals warn against drinking bleach due to the toxic chemicals inside.

QAnon influencer, Chief Police 2 urged his 17,800 Twitter followers to use “20-20-20 spray”, an MMS mix, to in a bid to protect themselves against the virus.

He tweeted: “New followers protect yourself with the 20-20-20 spray.”

In another Twitter post, he said: “Go watch this video. The website where you can get the 20-20-20 spray is in the video and in the description.

“I use it all the time to protect myself and my family. It kills viruses quick.”

He also added a link to a website that has directions for how to take bleach, which told users “spraying this mixture in your mouth and swishing it around and swallowing”.

Drinking bleach is extremely dangerous and can cause vomiting, diarrhoea and life-threatening low blood pressure due to dehydration.

The main ingredient in MMS – sodium chlorite – can also cause acute kidney failure if consumed.

QAnon groups believe there is a “deep state” plot against US President Donald Trump and his supporters.

The group made the bizarre and dangerous claim as Chinese authorities announced that 132 people have been killed by the disease so far.

While the virus has mainly affected China, there are fears the flu-like disease could put the UK capital at risk.

A major study found that London was expecting more than 142,000 tourists from China between January to mid-March.

It comes as European and American citizens in Wuhan, the Chinese city at the epicentre of the outbreak, remain stranded in the quarantined city.

Wuhan has been on lockdown along with other cities in Hubei province for almost a week.