Airline cleaning standards differ during coronovirus outbreak 
 As some airlines suspend and cut back services to China in an effort to help combat the spread of coronavirus, those continuing to fly to and from the country are taking steps to reassure passengers the cleaning and hygiene processes are sufficiently stringent.

But while some airlines have stepped up cleaning measures, others are confident their existing processes are good enough.

Air New Zealand chief medical officer, Dr Ben Johnston, said in a video released by the airline that it "already has in place very thorough aircraft cleaning procedures. And those procedures are applied every day and the cleaning agents that are used are effective against viruses like coronavirus".

Aircraft are fitted with "very sophisticated cabin conditioning systems" which filter out "small organisms such as viruses" and flight attendants have the training and equipment to help deal with a range of medical conditions, he said.

READ MORE:

 * Coronavirus: World airlines suspend China flights, cut services on virus fears

 * Coronavirus: Kiwis evacuated from Wuhan will not be quarantined on Christmas Island, Peters says

 * How airlines and airports are dealing with deadly China virus

 * MFAT advises against 'non-essential travel' to China as coronavirus outbreak worsens

"For infectious illnesses, we have Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) such as masks, gloves et cetera available to use. And the cabin crew again are trained and have procedures for how to use that equipment and how to look after those passengers. And they have access to 24/7 ground-based medical advice via satphone from anywhere in the world."

The cleaning crew in the video, with their T-shirts and exposed faces, bore a stark contrast to the hazmat suits and masks worn by Thai Airways cleaners in a recent video.

However, Johnston reassured Air New Zealand passengers "that the situation is being closely monitored and very well managed from an international level".

As a member of the International Air Transport Association (IATA), the airline is receiving regular updates from the organisation's medical adviser, who has "direct access" to World Health Organisation information, he said.

​IATA has specific guidelines for crew tasked with cleaning an arriving aircraft with a suspected case of communicable disease, such as coronavirus, but some airlines have opted to step up cleaning measures on all flights to and from China.

Thai Airways held a press conference Wednesday to address the video that showed cleaning crew in hazmat suits spraying disinfectant on passenger seats aboard an aircraft near Suvarnabhumi Airport in Thailand's Samut Prakan province.

Thai Airways president Sumeth Damrongchaitham said the airline has set up a "crisis management operations centre" to coordinate efforts to prevent the virus from spreading.

All aircraft arriving from China and other high-risk destinations are now disinfected for 45 minutes after passengers and crew have disembarked, the airline said in a statement.

"Aircraft must be sprayed with a disinfectant for 15 minutes and then closed for a sterilisation period of 30 minutes," it said.

Thai Airways flight attendants are required to wear face masks and gloves on flights to and from high-risk areas, not just when dealing with passengers suspected of having an infectious condition. The Thai airline has also opted to clean toilets more frequently during flights.

The IATA guidelines for crew cleaning planes with a suspected case of communicable disease state that they should wear PPE and disinfect the affected seat, those in the same row and those in the rows in front and behind. This includes disinfecting light and air controls, adjacent walls and windows, tray tables, arm rests, video screens and safety briefing cards, and replacing the contents of seat pockets.

Toilets used by the sick traveller should also be disinfected, as should upholstery, carpets and storage compartments soiled with bodily fluids.

Soiled material and personal protection gear must then be disposed of in a biohazard bag or a sealed plastic bag labelled "biohazard".

Some airlines, such as British Airlines and American Airlines, have halted flights to China as fears spread about the virus that has killed more than 130 people.

British Airlines has suspended all flights to China, while American Airlines has stopped flights to and from Shanghai and Beijing.

Several Asian carriers had already suspended or significantly cut back their services.

Air India and South Korean budget carrier Seoul Air are also halting all flights to the country, and Indonesia's Lion Air plans to do the same.

Other carriers to slash services include Finnair, Hong Kong-based Cathay Pacific, and Singapore-based Jetstar Asia.

There are about 50 flights per week between New Zealand and China.

An Auckland Airport spokesman said six different carriers connect between Auckland Airport and mainland China.

China Southern flies to Guangzhou, averaging 14 flights a week for January.  Sichuan Airlines flies to Chengdu with three flights per week.

Air China flies between Auckland and Beijing seven times a week. Air New Zealand has seven flights per week between Auckland and Shanghai and China Eastern has nine flights.

Hainan Airlines flies to Auckland from Hainan three times a week. China Southern flies to Christchurch from Guangzhou daily.

New Zealand's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT) has advised against "non-essential" travel to China as the coronavirus outbreak worsens.

On January 24, WHO recommended implementing measures to limit the risk of spreading the diseases "without unnecessary restrictions on international traffic".

Air New Zealand has been approached for comment on whether it has stepped up its cleaning efforts as a result of the virus.