4 Pak students diagnosed coronavirus in China 
 4 Pak students diagnosed coronavirus in China

By News report
Ag Agencies
ISLAMABAD/WUHAN//ABU DHABI: While Pakistan itself remains protected so far, four of its students studying in various institutions in Wuhan city are confirmed to have been infected with Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV), a new viral infection that originated from China and has spread to 18 countries, with 6,052 confirmed cases and 132 deaths as of January 29.
Sharing details at press conference here on Wednesday, the Prime Minister’s Special Assistant on Health Dr Zafar Mirza said, there is a marked improvement in the condition of all four Pakistani students, and there is hope that they will soon recover.
“The government of Pakistan and our Embassy in China are in touch with the affected students and their families. The PM has instructed me to assure families of the students that they are receiving best possible medical treatment and that we are taking care of them like our own children. Coordinated efforts are in place to ensure that the 28,000 plus Pakistani community in China—their majority being students—remains safe. We are also fully cognizant of the situation of the 500 Pakistani students studying in Wuhan,” Dr. Zafar assured.
Dr Zafar repeated that there is no confirmed case of 2019-nCoV in Pakistan so far. “We have four suspected cases under observation; their samples have been sent for testing and analysis. However, their stable condition gives me the confidence to state with a great measure of certainty that none of them is a confirmed 2019-nCoV case,” he claimed. He added that the country’s top leadership including the prime minister, as well as the Cabinet, the Ministry of Health, the Pakistan Army, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), and all relevant ministries and stakeholders are working in coordination to achieve optimal preparedness and response.
Students stranded in Wuhan, however, beg to differ. In a video message circulating on the social media, a Wuhan-based Pakistani student has appealed to the government of Pakistan to expedite evacuation of the 500 Pakistani students studying in Wuhan, now that their universities have also sent out emails, advising them to leave for their respective countries. “When we first requested our government and Embassy for evacuation, we were told to cooperate with the Chinese government. However, the situation here is worsening with every passing day. We want to get out of here. Our families and relatives are concerned and want us back in Pakistan. Even our universities have advised us to leave. Please do something for us before we die,” the student has appealed.
Coming back to the press conference, Dr. Zafar also appreciated the Chinese government for enforcing new regulations and ensuring compliance. “To quote one instance, Chinese citizens wanting to travel abroad are being kept under observation for 14 days (incubation period of the virus), and only in case of no symptoms are they allowed to embark on their journeys. This is again a superb initiative,” he stated.
Pakistan, being China’s neighbour, faces a high risk of cross-border virus transmission. In this context, Dr Zafar recounted some of the measures being taken in compliance with the International Health Regulations (IHR-2005). He said, the Federal Cabinet was briefed on the rapidly evolving situation on January 28. The Directorate of the Ministry dealing with airport and port health services is maintaining strict vigilance at Points of Entry; travelers entering the country from affected areas are being screened through thermo scanners and thermo guns, more of which are being arranged to bolster the screening process.
Novel Coronavirus is a viral infection caused by a newly discovered virus; it is the fifth virus of the known Coronavirus family.
Meanwhile Pakistani students in China said Wednesday they were terrified and were “being kept in one room” after four others had been tested for coronavirus amid a hysteria that has spread throughout the world. Two of them had earlier shared videos of appeals for assistance with Geo News.
Geo News has also learnt that the condition of one of the Pakistani students in China had worsened and her CT scan was carried out after collecting contributions worth 700 yuan in total. The student also suffers from respiratory issues.
Speaking to Geo News, one student — whose identity was protected — said: “We are very stressed and upset mentally. We’re being kept in one room and we’re scared and frightened. The virus is spreading day by day so for God’s sake, help us. We’re appealing repeatedly [and] we’re requesting the embassy repeatedly but the embassy staff told us, ‘You should have followed the rules in China, we can’t do anything for you, just sit in your room’. We have 105 students in our university and we have some students’ families and kids as well, some kids are aged six. We’re more upset because children are more susceptible to the disease.”
Meanwhile, airlines began suspending flights to and from China Wednesday as the World Health Organisation called an urgent meeting over whether a viral epidemic that has killed 132 people and infected around 6,000 others should be declared a global health emergency.
The flight suspensions came as some countries began airlifts of their nationals trapped in Wuhan, the quarantined Chinese city of 11 million people at the centre of the epidemic.
The announcement included subsidiaries Swiss and Austrian Airlines.
Indonesia´s Lion Air Group, Southeast Asia´s biggest carrier by fleet size, said it would halt services to and from China from Saturday, and airlines from Myanmar and Nepal followed suit.
Hong Kong-based Cathay Pacific has reduced flights, citing low demand and the city government´s response plan to the virus.
Meanwhile Kazakhstan, an important China trade partner, stopped issuing visas to Chinese citizens and said it would halt cross-border passenger train traffic and suspend flights.
In one of the most dramatic measures, the tiny Pacific nation of Papua New Guinea announced no travellers from Asia would be allowed in.
Most street traffic in and around Wuhan has been banned in an unprecedented quarantine effort, leaving more than 50 million people shuttered in their homes. “This is the first day since the lockdown that I´ve had to go out,” a man in his 50s said on the mostly deserted streets of the industrial city on Wednesday. “I have no choice because I need to buy food.”
A US charter flight from Wuhan with about 210 Americans on board — including consulate staff — was met at a California military base on Wednesday by emergency vehicles with flashing lights and personnel in white biological hazard suits.
Some 250 French citizens and 100 other Europeans will be flown out of Wuhan on board two French planes this week.
The Italian government said it would send an aircraft on Thursday. Up to 70 Italians are reportedly in Wuhan.
Australia plans to house any citizens evacuated on an island normally used to detain asylum seekers.
The number of confirmed cases across China climbed to 5,974, while the death toll nationwide jumped to 132.
The virus has also disrupted sporting events, with a women´s football Olympic qualifier event moved from Wuhan to Australia.
Meanwhile, the United Arab Emirates on Wednesday confirmed the first case of the deadly coronavirus from China, according to the Health Ministry. The case was confirmed of an individual from a family coming from Wuhan, China, the ministry said asserting required medical measures were taken.
The virus has also spread to Japan, South Korea, Thailand, the US, Singapore, France, Vietnam and Canada.