Possible coronavirus case under investigation in Arkansas 
 Arkansas health officials are investigating a possible case of the coronavirus, a spokesperson for the Arkansas Department of Health confirmed to 40/29 News.The case is not confirmed. The spokesperson was not able to release the location of the possible case. Earlier this week, officials announced two people were undergoing testing for possible coronavirus cases in Oklahoma and one person in eastern Kansas.Chief Nursing Officer for Northwest Medical Springdale, Dr. Al Velotta, told 40/29 News earlier this week the symptoms of the coronavirus are very similar to the symptoms of the flu."They're almost the same symptoms: upper respiratory, lower respiratory congestion, shortness of breath and fever. It's hard to differentiate. The only differentiating factor right now is travel to that province in China," Velotta said.Velotta said if a patient were to come to Northwest Medical exhibiting signs of the coronavirus, staff would immediately put a mask on the patient and take them to a quarantined exam room.Velotta said people in Northwest Arkansas should be more concerned about the flu than the coronavirus."The flu will probably be more detrimental and more deadly to people than the coronavirus will because we'll be able to control the coronavirus and we will know where it is coming from," he said.Medical staff recommend treating the virus just like the flu and seeking out healthcare as soon as you experience symptoms.

Arkansas health officials are investigating a possible case of the coronavirus, a spokesperson for the Arkansas Department of Health confirmed to 40/29 News.

The case is not confirmed. The spokesperson was not able to release the location of the possible case.

Earlier this week, officials announced two people were undergoing testing for possible coronavirus cases in Oklahoma and one person in eastern Kansas.

Chief Nursing Officer for Northwest Medical Springdale, Dr. Al Velotta, told 40/29 News earlier this week the symptoms of the coronavirus are very similar to the symptoms of the flu.

"They're almost the same symptoms: upper respiratory, lower respiratory congestion, shortness of breath and fever. It's hard to differentiate. The only differentiating factor right now is travel to that province in China," Velotta said.

Velotta said if a patient were to come to Northwest Medical exhibiting signs of the coronavirus, staff would immediately put a mask on the patient and take them to a quarantined exam room.

Velotta said people in Northwest Arkansas should be more concerned about the flu than the coronavirus.

"The flu will probably be more detrimental and more deadly to people than the coronavirus will because we'll be able to control the coronavirus and we will know where it is coming from," he said.

Medical staff recommend treating the virus just like the flu and seeking out healthcare as soon as you experience symptoms.