Coronavirus: No coronavirus cases in New Zealand, as plans to evacuate Kiwis from Wuhan still to come 
 The Government is working on how to bring New Zealanders home from Wuhan, the epicentre of the deadly coronavirus outbreak.

Health officials are still working on where they will quarantine New Zealanders being evacuated from Wuhan from China's coronavirus outbreak.

Health Minister Dr David Clark and Director General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield gave an updated on the New Zealand response in Auckland on Thursday afternoon.

There were 53 New Zealanders registered in Wuhan, the epicentre of the deadly coronavirus outbreak which has killed more than 130 Chinese nationals.

The government earlier announced it will evacuate New Zealanders from the city in conjunction with Australia, either by chartered commercial plane or military plane.

READ MORE: 

 * NZer in Wuhan awaits evacuation: 'I just don't want to spread the virus'

 * Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern confirms 53 Kiwis in Wuhan and 'very difficult' to bring home

 * New Zealand will partner with Australia to get stranded Kiwis out of Wuhan

 * Coronavirus: Kiwis evacuated from Wuhan will not be quarantined on Christmas Island, Peters says

Clark told reporters that there will still no confirmed cases of the virus in New Zealand and assured the public they would notify promptly if there were.

He said the latest advice said there was a small chance victims could transmit the virus before they fully showed symptoms.

Ardern earlier said evacuating New Zealanders would be "very difficult".

Specific details of the evacuation plan, including the medical protocols applied to returning New Zealanders, and access arrangements on the ground in China were being worked through by officials, she said.

The health minister said the options being considered included putting people up in hotels or some other facility or isolating them.

Australia planned to quarantine its evacuees on Christmas Island, 2000km from the mainland, which Foreign Affairs Minister Winston Peters ruled out on Thursday morning.

New Zealanders were being advised to "avoid non-essential travel elsewhere in China due to the recent outbreak of a novel coronavirus and associated travel restrictions."

The warning follows the foreign offices in the UK and Australia in advising against travel to any parts of China.

Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation (WHO) will reconvene its Emergency Committee on the novel coronavirus on Thursday afternoon in Geneva.

It will advise WHO Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus whether the outbreak constitutes a Public Health Emergency of International Concern and and what recommendations should be made to manage it.

Last week, after delaying for an extra day of deliberation, the committee decided not to declare the outbreak of pneumonia caused by a new coronavirus to be an emergency, which surprised many global health experts.