Cruise ships with passengers believed to have coronavirus will be met by health officers 
 Cruise ships carrying passengers believed to be infected with coronavirus will be met by health officers on arrival in New Zealand, the Health Ministry says.

At least 48 hours before any vessel arrives in New Zealand, the ship's Master must complete a notice of arrival form that includes a declaration about the crew and passengers and must say if any display symptoms of concern.

The Master must confirm everyone is healthy, or advise if anyone is unwell, 12 to 24 hours before the vessel's estimated arrival. Once a vessel arrives, the same laws apply to it as do within New Zealand.

 

 This means the Master or ship's doctor must tell the local public health staff if there is anyone on board suspected of having a notifiable infectious disease such as coronavirus.

 

 READ MORE:

* Coronavirus: China vows to slay demon virus as fears grow

 * Australians told to reconsider all travel to China as coronavirus spreads

 * Hong Kong cuts rail links to China to curb coronavirus

 * China counts 106 virus deaths as US, other countries, prepare to evacuate citizens

A Health Ministry spokeswoman said before the ship's arrival health officials would undertake a risk assessment, including the vessel's travel history.

"Health officers would then meet the vessel on arrival and manage the case and contacts according to their ill-traveller protocols," she said.

Cruise vessels have medical staff on board who are expected to communicate directly with local public health staff regarding symptoms.

Shipping agents had agreed to provide health advice posters and travel advice cards (English and Chinese versions) to incoming cruise vessels to display and to provide to their passengers.  They had also agreed to ensure messaging was displayed in cruise-ship terminals.



"We have provided advice to Tourism Industry Aotearoa, which will be distributed through accommodation providers and tour operators," she said.

 

 "We are also working closely with VSEAG Visitor Sector Emergency Advisory Group (chaired by MBIE) to distribute communications and messaging. The membership of VSEAG includes MFAT, TNZ, Education New Zealand, NZQA, Ministry of Education, Tourism Industry Aotearoa (TIA), Regional Tourism New Zealand and the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA)," she said.

Last year 322,000 cruise ship passengers visited New Zealand. The number is ever increasing with 2019 seeing a 24 per cent increase on 2018. Australian passengers made up more than two-thirds of the overall increase.

The ships hold thousands of passengers and crew. The largest, Ovation of the Seas, carries 4180 passengers and 1500 crew.

During the annual cruise season public health officials may visit passenger cruise vessels making more than one round-trip visit to New Zealand in order to ensure the appropriate processes are in place to protect the health of passengers and crew on entering New Zealand.

A spokesman for the Cruise Lines International Association said it was  monitoring developments closely.

"CLIA cruise lines maintain close contact with health professionals and regulators around the world, and are one of the most well-equipped and experienced industries when it comes to managing and monitoring health conditions."