‘Effective measures being taken to control coronavirus’ 
 ‘Effective measures being taken to control coronavirus’

LAHORE: Punjab Minister for Health Dr Yasmin Rashid on Wednesday told the Lahore High Court that effective measures were being taken to control coronavirus in addition to an awareness campaign among the citizens. She stated this during her appearance before Chief Justice Mamoon Rashid Sheikh in a case relating to non-disposal of hospital waste.
The minister told the court that there had been some issues with the outsourced companies responsible for disposing of the medial waste of the hospitals. However, she said the issues would be resolved at the earliest.
Responding to court’s queries about shortage of specialised and new hospitals, Dr Rashid said inauguration of a 600-bed Mother  Child Hospital in Lahore was going to be held soon while PC-I for Jinnah Hospital-II had been approved.
She further said projects of general hospitals were also on cards for Rajanpur, Layyah and Attock. She said as a whole five hospitals for mother  child care were being constructed in the province while health cards had been distributed among 6.2 million citizens.
The CJ adjourned hearing and sought progress report on disposal of hospital waste. Hearing another case, Chief Justice Sheikh turned down an application for staying import of wheat.
Representing a petition, Advocate Azhar Siddique urged the court to issue a stay order against the import of wheat. He said the shortage of the wheat in local market was artificial. He argued that if the wheat was imported unless a real crisis the local farmers will suffer a great loss as next crop was ready.
A law officer told the court that the government had so far no plan of import of wheat and export of sugar. About increase in sugar’s price, lawyer of sugar mills association said the hike in the price was due to difference in supply and demand. He said the sugar was available in open market on a rate from Rs75 to Rs80.
Chief Justice Sheikh observed that the sugar mills should have been shut if they were facing financial loss. The CJ adjourned hearing till Feb 3 and summoned record about stock, import and export of wheat and sugar besides a report on legislation about the sugar mills.