Texas universities, fearful of coronavirus, clamping down on travel to China 
 UPDATE: Rice University has suspended all sponsored travel to China by faculty, students and staff, the university said in a campus-wide email Friday afternoon. The suspension marked a stricter stance than Tuesday, when an official said the school was advising against non-essential travel to China, following the State Department’s lead.



                                                                	
                                                                	ORIGINAL STORY FOLLOWS:



                                                                	Texas universities are clamping down on travel to China, concerned about the mysterious new coronavirus that’s now infected more people in that country than SARS did.



                                                                	Citing advice by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the University of Houston System, Rice, Baylor College of Medicine, UTHealth, the University of Texas and Texas AM have all instituted temporary policies to stop all but the most essential travel to China.



                                                                	“While the UH System places great value in our work and on our many partnerships in China, including exchange programs and intends to continue these initiatives, our highest priority is the health and well-being of our UH System community,” Paula Myrick Short, senior vice chancellor for academic affairs, wrote faculty, students and staff in an email Tuesday. “At this time, the health risks associated with the uncertainty about where in China and how rapidly the virus is spreading outweigh our institutions’ academic and research endeavors and necessitate travel restrictions.”



                                                                	The UH policy prohibits all travel to Wuhan, the Hubei province where the outbreak originated, and non essential travel to China outside Hubei.



                                                                	Both UT and Texas AM have suspended all university-sponsored travel to China for undergraduate students and only are allowing “essential travel” by faculty, staff and graduate researchers, all of whose requests must be reviewed and approved. Texas AM’s policy urges those people to “give serious evaluation” before requesting travel to China.



                                                                	
                                                                	Baylor, the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston and Rice all have instituted similar policies.



                                                                	Most of the policies don’t mention Wuhan specifically. Some spokespeople suggested that’s because the city already is on lockdown.



                                                                	On HoustonChronicle.com: Why Houston is uniquely situated to be better prepared for the coronavirus threat



                                                                	There have been five confirmed coronavirus cases in the U.S., all of whom were infected in Wuhan but didn’t develop symptoms until they returned to the U.S. None are in Texas. Four suspected cases in the state that turned out not to be the virus included a student at Texas AM and a student at Baylor University in Waco.



                                                                	The number of confirmed cases in China is now 5,974, more than the 5,327 diagnosed with SARS (severe acute respiratory system) in 2002-2003. China’s death toll, 132, is still lower than that from SARS. Nearly 350 died in that outbreak.



                                                                	The virus has been confirmed in 18 other countries besides China, though it’s just a handful of cases in most.



                                                                	The CDC earlier this week added George Bush Intercontinental Airport and 14 other U.S. airports to those previously selected to screen travelers from China as a precaution. A spokesman said Wednesday that such screening has not begun and that airport officials are waiting on CDC guidance and additional staffers.



                                                                	Five flights from China fly into Houston weekly, none from Wuhan, said the spokesman. In all, those flights carry about 2,000 passengers.



                                                                	
                                                                	todd.ackerman@chron.com