British Columbia reports first case of Wuhan Coronavirus 
 The first case of a novel corona virus was reported by B.C. State Health Officer Dr. Bonnie Henry.

Henry said on Tuesday that the patient, a man in his forties who lives in the area covered by Vancouver Coastal Health, arrived in Vancouver last week after traveling to Wuhan, China. He developed symptoms 24 hours later.

The man told his doctor on Sunday that he had traveled to Wuhan City, had symptoms, and was coming for examination and care.

According to Dr. Bonnie Henry’s risk of spreading this virus in British Columbia is currently low.

Henry says the man she says is fine is not in the hospital, but is being isolated at home, and no member of his family has shown any symptoms since they are being monitored by health officials.

“We will be in contact with everyone who has had contact with this person several times a day,” said Henry.

A suspected case remains until the coronavirus is confirmed by a second test at the National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg.

The province expects the man’s test results to be back from the Winnipeg laboratory within 48 hours.

“But given the travel history, the contact this person had in Wuhan City, and the symptoms they showed, we are confident that this is really a case of this novel corona virus,” said Henry.

If confirmed, this would be the first case of a coronavirus in B.C. China has confirmed more than 4,500 cases of a new form of the coronavirus with at least 106 deaths.

The B.C. Government says the risk of spreading the virus in the province remains low.

“All necessary precautions are taken to prevent the spread of the infection,” said a joint statement by Henry and Health Minister Adrian Dix. “We have several preparation, detection and response systems to prevent the spread of serious infectious diseases in the province.”

The B.C. The Center for Disease Control has developed a diagnostic test for the new corona virus and is working so that potential cases can be identified quickly and accurately.

Henry has instructed health workers to be vigilant and take a travel history for anyone reporting respiratory symptoms, but she says there is currently no need for the general public to take special precautions that go beyond the usual recommended measures Preventing others go beyond frequent respiratory viruses during the cold and flu season.

“Regular hand washing, coughing or sneezing in the elbow cuff, proper tissue disposal, and avoiding contact with the sick are important measures to prevent the spread of respiratory diseases in general,” she said.

The flu-like virus spreads in droplets of cough and sneezing and has an incubation period of 1-14 days.

If you are concerned about coronavirus or have symptoms such as fever, cough and shortness of breath, contact your family doctor, local health office or call 811, BC, free of charge, at the health information line.

With files from The Canadian Press and Reuters

There is more to come