Travel ban to US? Bar Chinese from infected areas instead–Pangilinan 
 MANILA, Philippines—  Instead of barring   Cabinet  officials  from travelling to  the  United States, the government should ban the entry to the Philippines of Chinese from virus-infected areas, opposition Senator   Francis “Kiko” Pangilinan said on  Thursday.

President Rodrigo Duterte on Wednesday  ordered  his Cabinet  officials to refrain from flying to the  United States, a week after he threatened to scrap the Visiting Forces  Agreement (VFA) with the US after Washington cancelled the visa of Senator Ronald “Bato” dela Rosa.

“I will not allow any Cabinet member to go there at this time. No Cabinet member should be allowed to go to the United States,”   Duterte said.

Sought for comment,  Pangilinan  said  the President should have instead ordered the  banning of Chinese nationals from areas infected by the 2019 novel coronavirus.

“Sa halip na barring Cabinet officials from going to the US, dapat barring Chinese nationals from coronavirus cities from entering the Phil ang inaasikaso ng Malacanang,”  he said in a  text message.

The novel coronavirus, which has  reportedly killed 170  people and infected  over 7,000 others,  was  first detected in Wuhan, China and has already spread to other parts of China and the world.

Despite the  coronavirus scare, Duterte said the government would not  yet ban the entry of Chinese nationals to the Philippines.

“Bakit mukhang mas matimbang sa inyo ang interes ng China kaysa sa kapakanan at kaligtasan ng mamamayang Pilipino?”   Pangilinan, president of the  Liberal Party,  wrote on Facebook Wednesday.

“Unahin dapat ang kaligtasan ng taumbayan hindi ang interes ng iilan sa pagkansela ng isang visa,”  he further said in the text message.

On January 22, Dela Rosa  confirmed that his US visa had been revoked and the US did not tell him why.

As then police chief, Dela Rosa  oversaw Duterte’s war on drugs  that  resulted in the deaths of thousands drug suspects.