Hawaii officials vigilant on coronavirus, no cases reported locally so far 
 According to the Hawaii Department of Health, there have been no reported cases of the coronavirus in Hawaii.


Last week, Pacific Business News reported on the 2019 Novel Coronavirus outbreak and how the DOH was advising Hawaii doctors to be on alert for patients who have traveled from Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China. 


            
            
        PBN reached out to the department on Tuesday and again on Wednesday afternoon after receiving a tip about the virus reaching the Islands.  Both times, the DOH responded, "There have been no reported cases of the 2019 novel coronavirus in Hawaii."


Local health officials noted that the DOH would be the entity to confirm any cases in the state. 


"As we hear of more cases in China and now five cases in the United States, we’re seeing people begin to panic thinking they need to take extreme precautions," said Melinda Ashton, executive vice president and chief quality officer of Hawaii Pacific Health, in an email to PBN.


"However, if you haven’t traveled to China recently, you should not be concerned at this time. The DOH and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) are the best sources for the most up-to-date information as well as tips on what people can do to protect themselves from this and other respiratory illnesses," she added. 


The state Department of Health sent out an advisory Wednesday morning saying it is preparing for the 2019 novel coronavirus, but the "risk to the general public is low."


“The Hawaii Department of Health is working closely with our emergency response network to put proactive measures in place to protect our residents and visitors,” said Health Director Bruce Anderson, in a statement. “Because Hawaii is a major travel destination, planning and preparing for possible outbreaks is an ongoing activity."


 “We are advising people not to travel to China at this time,” Anderson said. “Various areas in China have been placed under quarantine by the Chinese government, and travel within the country is either completely prohibited or significantly curtailed to prevent the spread of this disease.” 


State and health care officials convened Wednesday for a media press conference, discussing how the state is preparing for possible cases. Officials included: Gov. David Ige, Health Director Bruce Anderson, State Epidemiologist Sarah Park, Department of Transportation Airport Division Fire Chief Martinez Jacobs, and Healthcare Association of Hawaii President Hilton Raethel.


"There are currently no cases and no one that we are monitoring," Park told the audience at the conference.