Hamilton bar offering patrons cheap Corona beers 'while pandemic lasts' asked by Lion to stop 
 A Hamilton bar offering Corona deals "while pandemic lasts" has pulled their ad after Lion asked for the promotion to be discontinued.

The House on Hood Facebook page put up a post on Wednesday to promote a $6.50 Corona deal and said "mention your Corona loving mates to let them know about this great deal and you could be sharing a free one metre pizza".

The Corona virus, which originated in Wuhan, China, has so far killed 132 people globally and left more than 4500 sick.

The post has a picture of two men in boiler suits wearing masks and gloves holding the beer. "Virus or no virus, we still think Coronas are pretty great, so while the pandemic lasts, we're selling Coronas for just $6.50," it says.

READ MORE:

 * Hamilton House on Hood bar makes light of Mark Bunting's lewd joke

 * New Zealand will partner with Australia to get stranded Kiwis out of Wuhan

 ​* We're much more vulnerable to the spread of viruses than we once were

Lawrenson Group chief executive officer John Lawrenson, who owns House on Hood, told Stuff he thought the ad was fine and he expected this kind of reaction.

"About 90 per cent of people react with a like or a laugh and about 10 per cent with an angry or sad face.

"However, the 10 per cent are very vocal and share and comment to express their displeasure and that seems to drastically increase the reach of the ad for us."

However, hours later the ad had been taken down after Lion said they had been unaware of the promotion, but did not condone it.

"We have been in touch with the venue and asked that it be discontinued."

Lawrenson said Lion had no clout to stop him doing the post as he did not actually buy his Corona from them, but someone had called him and asked him nicely for a favour, so he said yes.

He was reworking the post and would have another one up shortly.

Human Rights Commission Race Relations Commissioner Meng Foon also slammed the ad as "absolutely bad taste".

"It's deplorable that this business is capitalising on people dying."

When he saw the picture Foon said he felt "sick to the core".

Foon said using this situation to gain financial gain was just not on.

When the White Island/Whakaari eruption happened, and the Christchurch terror attack, there were no such promotions, he said.

"People are sick in the mind."

The post received mixed responses on Facebook, with some people calling it "shameful".

"I realise that House likes to be cheeky with things like this and to whoever crafted the ad for you it was probably all in "good fun". However...130 people have died of the virus so far and there's over 6,000 confirmed cases. These people are literally suffering and it's honestly shameful to use their deaths as a marketing strategy."

"Can't really believe the deaths of 132 people are being used as an advertising ploy. You should be ashamed."

However, other people thought the post was "brilliant".

"As the CEO says... all you snowflakes need to relax! China has 1.3 billion people and 130ish people have died from the virus! More people die in car accidents, influenza, or the flu over this each day! The chance of an out spread in NZ is very low! Just relax and grab a beer maybe a Corona or something."

King St advertising chief executive officer Chris Williams said he had been waiting for someone to do something like this.

He said shock advertising could do well in the short-term, but he didn't think it was right to cash in on this situation.

"It's in bad taste and just not right. People are dying."

Williams said he didn't think the term "any publicity was good publicity" applied anymore and said this ad was no different to Otago cartoonist Garrick Tremain's cartoon mocking the deadly Samoan measles epidemic.

"That was terrible as well. This is no different in many ways."

Hamilton Mayor Paula Southgate  also thought the ad was really insensitive.

"People have lost their lives and people are fearful of it," she said.

"I'm not a fan of what I would describe as poor taste."

This isn't the first time House on Hood has used current affairs as an advertising opportunity.

They played on a crude joke Hamilton City Councillor Mark Bunting sent to freelance journalist Angela Cuming in 2017, but later deleted the post at the request of council.

When Metiria Turei was in trouble with Winz they posted a meme as well as when Bill English lost the Eminem case for copyright and NZ First and Labour formed a coalition.

Lawrenson said they had covered a range of topical personalities in the past, from Bill English, Simon Bridges and Israel Folau to Brian Tamaki, Greta Thunberg and Metiria Turei.

"It's unavoidable that some will disagree with the approach, but many others love it, and it has certainly been successful."

Lawrenson said the success of these ads was based on the fact in society there was a small per cent of the population that took it upon themselves to be outraged on behalf of everyone else.

"I guess I would say to them that just because they are offended, it doesn't mean that everyone else is. There are probably far more impactful things they could be doing with their time than frantically typing on their keyboards."