Qld coronavirus: Entire tour group isolated, four unwell 
 EIGHT other people who were travelling with the man confirmed to have coronavirus are currently in isolation at Gold Coast University Hospital. 
Queensland Health chief officer Dr Jeannette Young said the man, who travelled on Tiger Airways flight TT566 landing yesterday on the Gold Coast at 8pm, went to his accommodation and became increasingly unwell and called an ambulance 3.30pm yesterday.
“He currently remains in Gold Coast University Hospital,” she said.
“There are eight other people in that tour group and they are all currently in isolation.
“Four are unwell and being tested. Four are well and are continuing to be monitored.”
Dr Young said the man was in his hotel for less than 24 hours.
Health Minister Steven Miles said Queensland Health was working to contact everyone on that flight, which is believed to have 150-200 passengers, and urging if they need advice to call 13 Health.
A Chinese national, 44, who was last night confirmed as the state’s first case and the seventh in Australia, is in isolation at the Gold Coast University Hospital.
Queensland Chief Health Officer Jeannette Young said the Wuhan man was stable.
Confirmation of the case comes as members of the national Chinese women’s soccer team are in quarantine in a Brisbane hotel until February 5 amid the growing crisis.
In an extraordinary move, Queensland Health has asked the 32 players and their staff to remain in their hotel, which has not been named.
Dr Young said the team arrived in Brisbane from Shanghai at 9am yesterday.
She said the players, who were to train in Brisbane and fly to Sydney for an Olympic qualifying tournament, had left Wuhan on January 22.
They have been asked to remain in isolation until February 5, marking 14 days since they were in Wuhan.
More than 6000 have been infected, including seven in Australia – four in NSW, two in Victoria and now one in Queensland.
Dr Young said all of the footballers were “perfectly well at this point” and were travelling with a team doctor.
“If any of these footballers develop any symptoms, we’ll of course be taking them immediately to one of our hospitals,” she said. “They’ve been extremely co-operative as has the Chinese consulate. They will work with us. There’s no risk to anyone in that hotel, the staff or the community.”
Health Minister Steven Miles said hotel management had asked for time to notify guests and
staff before the hotel name was released.
Returned travellers from China’s Hubei Province are now being advised to self-isolate for 14 days after leaving the region. Queenslanders who have travelled to any part of mainland China or Hong Kong are also expected to stay away from early childcare centres, schools or TAFE for the first 14 days after leaving the country.
“We are updating advice to schools to ask them to isolate all students who have travelled to China in the last 14 days until they have been returned in Australia for 14 days without symptoms,” Mr Miles said.
The changes follow new international evidence suggesting the virus could be transmitted within 48 hours before people had symptoms.
“We do not want anyone who has come back from anywhere in China, including Hong Kong, to return to schools for 14 days,” Dr Young said. “That also applies to students, teachers and other staff – and to early childhood centres and TAFEs.”
It comes after more than 856,000 Queensland students returned to school this week. The Courier-Mail understands schools are frustrated with the change to health advice.
The Brisbane Chinese Festival was to be on February 8 but has been postponed.
“Considering the impact coronavirus, Brisbane Chinese Festival Organising Committee has decided to postpone 2020 Brisbane Chinese Festival. As soon as a new date is confirmed, we will let you know,” a statement from organisers read.
“It is a very hard decision, but we believe it is (the) right decision in terms of protection public health.”
Logan’s Chung Tian Temple has also postponed its cultural open day, which was expected to bring 35,000 people to the area on February 2, due to “the outbreak”.