Coronavirus hospital opened in two days 
 Coronavirus hospital opened in two days

HUANGGANG: It took just two days for 500 workers to construct China's first dedicated coronavirus hospital in Hubei province and two more are expected to open in Wuhan - ground zero for the outbreak - within days.
China has opened its first coronavirus hospital after around 500 workers and volunteers spent just 48 hours converting an empty building. The medical building had been set to open in May, but following the deadly outbreak, it was all hands on deck to get it completed.
It now boasts 1,000-beds and the first batch of coronavirus patients were transferred at around 10.30 pm last night. The hospital, called the Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Centre, in Huanggang, also has water, electricity and internet, reported international media on Wednesday.
It is expected to relieve some of the pressure on doctors and nurses in Hubei province - the epicentre of the outbreak - where overwhelmed hospitals were running out of beds, masks and other supplies as they were inundated with patients.
Two pop-up hospitals are also currently being built from scratch to treat patients with the SARS-like virus that has killed more than 130 people in the country.
Hundreds of workers are racing to build a second hospital, called Huoshenshan or Fire God Mountain Hospital, from scratch. Teams are aiming to finish the 1,000-bed facility, which covers six acres in suburban Wuhan, in less than two weeks, with the first patients expected to arrive on February 3.
A third hospital, also being built from scratch, is due to open on February 5 and there are plans for a fourth. The third facility is called Leishenshan, or the Thunder God Mountain Hospital. It is also located in Wuhan, the city of 11 million where the flu-like virus is believed to have spread to humans at a live wild animal market. That 60,000-square metre facility will have 1,600 beds - 300 more than originally planned - and dormitories for more than 2,000 medical staff. Hospitals in Hubei province are struggling amid the crisis which has killed at least 136 people and infected more than 6,000 others as of Wednesday afternoon.