Asia stocks slide on widening Wuhan virus fallout; STI down 0.5% 
 SYDNEY (BLOOMBERG) - Asian stocks slumped to a seven-week low and government bonds rallied on Thursday (Jan 30) amid mounting evidence that the coronavirus epidemic is disrupting the world's second-largest economy.

A slew of companies have suspended some of their China operations for the time being in the effort to contain the disease, and economists have started cutting growth forecasts.

Japan's Nikkei index slid 1.6 per cent while Hong Kong's Hang Seng lost 1.6 per cent. South Korea's Kospi index fell 0.9 per cent and Australia's S&P/ASX 200 Index declined 0.5 per cent.

Taiwan shares plunged over 4 per cent as that market came back from a holiday.

In Singapore, the Straits Times Index was down 14.53 points or 0.5 per cent at 3,168.04 by 10:59am, after first opening up on Thursday.

US futures dropped and Treasury yields added to declines. The yuan dipped offshore.

Foxconn's Hon Hai Precision Industry Co - which makes most of the world's iPhones, and has major facilities in China - plunged as much as 10 per cent. Japanese 10-year bond yields hit their lowest level since December and Australian ones slid below 1 per cent.

With the death toll from the coronavirus rising to 170 and the number of cases continuing to rise, investors remain cautious. Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell said the outbreak of the coronavirus will likely hit the Chinese economy and could spill wider, but it was too early to assess its impact on the US

"At this point the real impact of the coronavirus depends on how fast the containment of the virus is," Eugenia Victorino, head of Asia strategy at SEB, told Bloomberg TV in Singapore. "There is really a lot of uncertainty and we do not know when the peak of the infections will be."

Powell also said he wasn't satisfied with inflation running persistently below 2 per cent, after he and his colleagues kept Fed policy on hold Wednesday.

Meantime, investors continue to assess the earnings outlook -- positive results from Microsoft Corp. and Tesla Inc. overshadowed an underwhelming report from Facebook Inc.