Glen Dimplex 'not interested' in Philips' €3bn appliance unit 
 Irish group Glen Dimplex is not interested in acquiring the home appliances division of Philips, it's understood, after the Dutch firm said this week it will sell the unit within the ne Glen Dimplex, with annual sales between €1.5bn and €2bn, is of a similar scale to the Philips division. The Irish group, founded by billionaire Martin Naughton, owns a range of well-known household appliance brands and sells all over the world. The brands include Morphy Richards, Belling and Xpelair. Its product ranges extend from toasters and kettles to cookers and heating appliances, while it also sells thermal solutions to residential, commercial and industrial clients. Fergal Naughton is the Glen Dimplex chief executive and Neil Naughton is executive chairman. Both are sons of Martin Naughton. The company has its roots in Newry, Co Down, having been founded there in 1973. In 1977, Glen Electric acquired UK firm Dimplex - then seven times the size of the Irish firm - to create the current group. It employs about 10,000 people across the world. Philips' home appliances unit sells a broad range of household products from airfryers and irons, to air purifiers and juicers. Glen Dimplex declined to comment on whether or not it would be interested in the Philips division if it comes up for sale, but it's understood that it will not run the rule over the business. Philips chief executive Frans van Houten said this week that the group's domestic appliances business is "not a strategic fit for our future as a health technology leader". He added that all options remained open for the division, which he said had a double-digit profit margin that was "slightly less" than the average for Philips. ING analyst Marc Hesselink said a "quick and dirty" calculation valued the division at around €3bn, assuming a 10pc profit margin, with a price tag of 12 times gross profit. Once a sprawling conglomerate, Amsterdam-based Philips has narrowed its focus in recent years, spinning off the lighting and consumer electronics divisions for which it was previously best known. "This was a, in our view, widely expected move... to focus even more on health tech," said Mr Hesselink on the plans for the Philips home appliances division. Philips reaffirmed its 2020 targets for a 100 basis point improvement in adjusted earnings before interest, tax and amortisation margin and a 4pc to 6pc increase in comparable sales. However, it expected a slow start to the year with growth likely to be dented by China's efforts to contain a coronavirus outbreak. The company has around 8,000 employees in China, many of whom have been ordered by authorities to stay at home. In an interview with the 'Sunday Independent' in 2016, Neil Naughton emphatically ruled out any move by Glen Dimplex to become listed on the stock market. "We are a private company and we like that," he said. "As a private company, we can take a long-term strategy, that's really what we like. We can have our victories in private and our failures in private." Additional reporting Reuters