Coronavirus: Beware the pandemic panic 
 Loading
I also worry that the online world may give rise to dangerous scepticism and that in the event of an actual pandemic a large number of people may delay treatment or refuse vaccines because they don't believe the science or are suspicious of the government.
"I predict that the next major outbreak – whether of a highly fatal strain of influenza or something else – will not be due to a lack of preventive technologies," warned Heidi Larson, the director of the Vaccine Confidence Project, in a 2018 article in the journal Nature. "Instead, emotional contagion, digitally enabled, could erode trust in vaccines so much as to render them moot." Social media, she added, "should be recognised as a global public-health threat".
Tech giants have been racing to tamp down conspiracy theories and hoaxes about the Wuhan virus, but I worry that their efforts won't be very successful, because society seems to have no good answer to the kind of emotional contagion Larson describes.
I also worry about the hair-trigger state of geopolitics. From Donald Trump to Xi Jinping to Boris Johnson, strongmen with authoritarian tendencies run many of the world's most powerful governments. It is worth remembering that disease, or the fear of disease, can bring out the worst in humanity — pandemics often feed scapegoating (Jews were widely blamed for the Black Death), creating a fertile field for demagogues. When you put all these factors together, you've got a dangerous recipe for global repression.

Already, China's response appears to be driven by political considerations more than epidemiological ones. The government has imposed a travel lockdown on more than 35 million people, which experts say is a quarantine of unprecedented size and scale, yet it may not even turn out to be very effective. Experts say that quarantines work best during the earliest stages of an outbreak but that they can also backfire, causing medical shortages, corroding trust in health officials and pushing some people to look to evade care to escape any restriction on their rights. China took weeks to mount a full-scale response to the virus. According to Wuhan's mayor, 5 million people left the city before restrictions were imposed, suggesting the country is effectively locking the barn door after the horse has run off.
"They're doing it because people who are in political leadership always think that if you do something dramatic and visible that you'll gain popular support,"  Lawrence Gostin, a professor of global health law at Georgetown University, told The Washington Post. "They couldn't have any sound public health advice."
You might wonder what the great harm is – if the government needs to temporarily limit people's movements or prevent some people from entering the country, shouldn't it take those measures in the face of dangerous illness?
Perhaps, but given the chequered history of quarantines – throughout history, they have been used to persecute the marginalised – lawmakers and the media should rigorously examine the bases for any such restrictions. We should especially make sure any restrictions imposed are indeed temporary and adhere to the science – something we don't always do. Consider that 30 years after the AIDS outbreak, men who have sex with men are still restricted from donating blood in the United States, long after the scientific basis for such a ban has passed.

Loading
So far, President Donald Trump has offered a measured response to the virus. "We have it totally under control," he said this week. But online, misinformation about the scale of the virus is already trending. (It is not, as you might have read on Twitter, "thermonuclear pandemic level bad".) So are racist memes blaming Chinese people and Chinese culture for the virus.
I fear that the conditions are ripe for a situation similar to what occurred in the summer of 2014, when an outbreak of Ebola overran West Africa. After the Obama administration scrambled to bring home two American health workers who had become infected with the disease in Liberia, Trump went on a months-long Twitter tirade about Ebola.
The future president favoured extreme isolationism, seeing no benefit to American help in Africa. "People that go to far away places to help out are great-but must suffer the consequences!" he wrote – ultimately sparking a growing partisan movement against the government's response to the virus.
I fear that panic about a foreign virus offers society another chance to target marginalised people. So let's keep our fear in check; panic will hurt us far more than it'll help.