Two Australian citizens in China infected with coronavirus 
 The Federal Government has confirmed two Australian citizens in China have been infected with coronavirus.

There are hundreds of Australians stuck in the Chinese city of Wuhan, after the city was placed into lockdown to stop the spread of the deadly new virus.

Discussions are underway between Australian diplomats and Chinese authorities to evacuate Australians from the city.

Health Minister Greg Hunt said the Australians infected were in other parts of China.

The total number of people in Australia infected with the virus has reached seven.

Earlier today, the Queensland Government announced authorities were testing four more people who were in the same tour group with a man who tested positive for the virus yesterday.

The man who tested positive travelled to the Gold Coast on Tiger Airways flight TT566 on January 27.

Queensland Health Minister Steven Miles said the man became unwell while on the flight.

Chinese authorities said the outbreak has now killed 170 people and confirmed a total of 7,711 cases across China.

In addition, Hong Kong has eight cases and Macau has five.

Nearly all of the 170 deaths have been in central Hubei province, where the illnesses began in December.

The World Health Organisation has voiced "grave concern" about the person-to-person spread virus in three other countries, outside of China, ahead of an emergency committee meeting to decide whether it now constitutes a global emergency.

Australia announced it will evacuate Australians trapped in Hubei province and transfer them to a quarantine centre on Christmas Island.

Several countries have already evacuated their citizens out of Wuhan.

Japan evacuated more than 200 people to Tokyo yesterday, with 12 of them reporting feeling unwell upon their arrival.

Three people evacuated from Japan have tested positive for the virus after arriving on a government-chartered plane.

More than 200 Americans have landed at a California military base after being evacuated where they will be monitored for three days to ensure they show no signs of the illness.

Some major airlines suspended flights to China, and a senior economist predicted a major impact on growth.