Brisbane Lunar New Year events going ahead: Schrinner 
 "Ultimately, we will rely on the advice of authorities such as Queensland Health when it comes to decisions on those specific events, but I'm not aware that council has cancelled any events at this stage and we don't have any intention of cancelling events unless the authorities advise us otherwise."
The Brisbane Chinese Festival, planned for February 8 and 9, and Logan's Chung Tian Temple Open Day, due to be held on February 2, have been postponed as a result of the coronavirus outbreak.
Cr Schrinner said he had spoken to Queensland's Chief Medical Officer Dr Jeannette Young on Wednesday morning.
Eight people are currently being assessed at a Gold Coast hospital after being in close contact with a man who has been confirmed as carrying coronavirus on the Gold Coast.

Dr Young said the group, which includes children, were travelling with the 44-year-old Chinese national, who had tested positive to the disease and who was being treated at the hospital.
Four of the people are unwell, some of those children, while the other four are not currently displaying symptoms.
Loading
"I understand there is concern out in the community but the message from authorities, the message from Brisbane City Council and my message to the community is panic will not achieve anything," Cr Schrinner said.
"Blame will not achieve anything. What we need to do here is focus on what will make a difference, and that is keeping a look out for each other."

Cr Schrinner said people needed to maintain basic good hygiene practices and if employees were not feeling well, they should stay home with the support of their employers.
He said anyone concerned about coronavirus who was not feeling well should go to their GP and get a test to ensure they were healthy.
Loading
Cr Schrinner said he was disappointed in fake alerts that had circulated on social media urging residents to stay away from Brisbane suburbs with high Asian populations.
"As you know, I was out with my family on the weekend having a family lunch with Sunnybank and there was a great vibe with the community there," he said.

"I know some of these things have been started as a joke - it is not a joke, it is not funny, and it is not productive."

Lucy is the urban affairs reporter for the Brisbane Times, with a special interest in Brisbane City Council.