Children among four unwell people being tested for coronavirus in Queensland 
 Queensland authorities are testing four more people for coronavirus who were in the same tour group with a man who tested positive yesterday.

They are all in isolation at the Gold Coast University Hospital.

The test results are due later today.

The man who tested positive travelled to the Gold Coast on Tiger Airways flight TT566 on January 27.

Queensland Health Minister Steven Miles said the man became unwell while on the flight.

"Queensland Health is trying to get contact details for all passengers on that flight," he said.

He urged anyone that was on the flight to call 13HEALTH.

Up to 200 people were on the flight.

Queensland's Chief Health Officer Jeannette Young said eight others in the man's tour group have been isolated

"Four of them are unwell and are being tested, four of them are well at this time, but we'll continue to monitor them," Dr Young said.

Dr Young confirmed that children were among the members of the group who were unwell and were being monitored.

She said Queensland Health was working closely with the Federal Government and the World Health Organisation to ensure the best response.

Mr Miles said after the man's plane landed, he went to his accommodation at the Gold Coast, and called for an ambulance the following afternoon.

The man is now in isolation at the Gold Coast hospital.

The man was staying at Peppers Broadbeach, a hotel operated by Accor.

An Accor spokesperson said in a statement that it had been closely monitoring the situation.

"[We] have implemented additional hygiene procedures, including cleaning and disinfection as outlined by the authorities.

"The safety and wellbeing of our guests and colleagues is our highest priority and we are following the advice of the Australian Government's Department of Health to further limit any risk."

Mr Miles said the State Government was working to provide translated health updates to the local Chinese community.

The Federal Government has also confirmed two Australian citizens in China have been infected with coronavirus.

The virus has infected more than 6,000 people around the world, most of them in China, where the death toll stands at 133.