A LETTER TO ALL FOREIGN FRIENDS IN LIAONING From the Foreign Affairs Office of Liaoning Provincial People’s Government - People's Daily Online 
 Dear foreign friends,


	To combat the outbreak of pneumonia caused by the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) and ensure the health of the general public, Liaoning Province had initiated the First Level (the highest level) public health emergency response. Up to now, various epidemic prevention efforts have been made efficiently and orderly. Hereby, we advocate the following to all foreigners in Liaoning:


	I. Pay attention to authoritative information


	Please follow the official website of Liaoning Provincial Health Commission (http://wsjk.ln.gov.cn/) and Liaoning government Wechat (liaoningfabu) for updates of the epidemic including preventive measures and important information.


	II. Maintain good hygiene habits


	Please wash your hands often. Cover your mouth and nose with tissue or your elbow when coughing or sneezing. Keep your house clean and ventilated adequately.


	III. please strengthen self-protection with less out-door activities


	Please avoid going to crowded places, and reduce group activities such as gatherings and dinners. Please wear masks correctly when going out. Discarded masks should be placed according to regulations. 


	IV. Avoid touching or eating wild animals


	Please eat cooked poultry, meats and eggs. Household tableware should be used separately for cooked and un-cooked food. 


	V. Regularly monitor your health


	When you have symptoms of having a fever ≥37.3℃, coughing, difficulty in breathing or lacking in strength, please wear a surgical mask and immediately go to see a doctor at your nearest designated medical institutions. (Please refer to the attachment for these institutions.)


	VI. Be responsible and cooperative


	If you have recently visited high-risk areas or contacted with people from these areas, please report to the local centers for disease control and prevention or other designated departments as soon as possible. Please stay at home and pay close attention to your health. When asked, please provide the local governments, communities or medical staff with your information in a timely manner.


	We are deeply convinced that with all your understanding and support, we will definitely win this battle. We wish you all good health, joy, peace and great happiness.


	 


	The Foreign Affairs Office


	Liaoning Provincial People’s Government


	 


	January 29, 2020