Britons evacuated from China could be quarantined in budget hotels in coronavirus crisis 
 BRITS fleeing China's coronavirus outbreak could be quarantined in budget hotels when they finally land back home.

Up to 200 UK evacuees are expected to be flown back from Wuhan - the centre of the deadly outbreak - sometime this week.

4

 A passenger wearing a face mask arrives at Terminal 5 at Heathrow airportCredit: AFP or licensors
Whitehall officials have already said all will be "safely isolated" for 14 days even if they aren't  showing symptoms of the deadly virus.

Matt Hancock, the health secretary, chaired a meeting of the Cobra emergency committee in Downing Street this afternoon to finalise how travellers will be handled when they arrive.

However one insider has revealed budget hotels are now a possible quarantine option.

It's been reported RAF Brize Norton and Gatwick airport have been pencilled in as possible landing destinations.

However, the government has not yet worked out where the returning Brits will be taken after they touch down.

 Several military bases have been discussed but civilian accommodation is also being considered, reports the Times.

4

 A plane carrying Japanese citizens repatriated from Wuhan amidst the coronavirus outbreakCredit: Getty Images - Getty

The Whitehall source pointed out the budget hotels “would be nicer than being on military bases".

"The aim is to put these people up for a couple of weeks, so it’s better for it to be somewhere comfortable," the source was quoted as saying.

However, another source insisted the preferred option was still a military base.

Hancock wants everyone being flown back from the virus-hit parts of China to be housed in a secure facility for 14 days.

A health source said: “They are not just going to have their temperature checked then sent on their way.

“They will be quarantined in a secure facility for the 14 day incubation period, regardless of whether they are showing symptoms or not.”


What we know about coronavirus so far...



Hancock confirmed the policy this morning, saying in a tweet: "We are working hard to get British nationals back from Wuhan. Public safety is the top priority.

"Anyone who returns from Wuhan will be safely isolated for 14 days, with all necessary medical attention."

He chaired a meeting of the Government's Cobra emergency committee at 4.30pm, Downing Street said.

A flight was due to leave Wuhan in China tomorrow carrying passengers from Hubei province who want to return to the UK but it later emerged that this flight had been blocked from taking off.

Passengers may be asked to sign a contract before they board the plane saying they agree to being placed in quarantine.

Anyone who does not wish to sign could be asked to stay.


The Department of Health today confirmed that 130 people have been tested for coronavirus in Britain - all have come back negative.

Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation said its emergency committee will meet tomorrow to discuss whether it will declare the outbreak a global emergency.

It comes as British Airways has suspended all flights to and from mainland China and the Government finalises urgent plans to bring Brits back from the coronavirus-hit province of Hubei.

The airline, which operates daily flights to Shanghai and Beijing from Heathrow, said it was halting the flights with immediate effect after the Foreign Office warned against "all but essential travel" to the country because of the virus outbreak.

Virgin Atlantic said its flights between Heathrow and Shanghai will continue to operate as scheduled but passengers can rebook or get a refund.

4

 Concerned citizens lining up outside a chemist in ChinaCredit: EPA
4

 Experts in China carry out work on a new coronavirus nucleic acid detection kitCredit: EPA
The deadline for those stuck in the city of Wuhan and surrounding areas to contact the British consulate expressing their wish to leave passed at 3am UK time (11am local time).

In a statement on Wednesday morning, British Airways said: "We have suspended all flights to and from mainland China with immediate effect following advice from the Foreign Office against all but essential travel.

"We apologise to customers for the inconvenience, but the safety of our customers and crew is always our priority.

"Customers due to travel to or from China in the coming days can find more information on ba.com."

It comes after the Foreign Office updated its advice on Tuesday to warn against "all but essential travel" to mainland China, saying it may become more difficult for British nationals in other provinces to leave.

Latest



QUIT SHOCK
 Alastair Stewart forced out of ITV after 'calling black man an ape on Twitter' 

Latest



GUNNED DOWN
 Man fighting for life after being shot and another stabbed in London 

CAM OFF IT!
 Builder, 53, says Megxit is cover-up to hide that he's Charles  Camilla's son 

NEVER FORGET HER FACE
 This girl, 14, was killed with an injection to the heart in Auschwitz 

HEARTBREAKING
 Kobe Bryant’s wife shares first tribute since crash killed star  daughter 

SNOW STORM
 Up to five inches of snow to fall in Britain as -10C icy blast hits 







The death toll in China from coronavirus has risen to 169, with confirmed infections surging past 6,000.

Four cases have been confirmed in Germany, making it the second European country to report cases, after France.

In Australia, officials unveiled plans to evacuate its nationals from Wuhan and the surrounding Hubei province, with plans to quarantine them in the Christmas Island immigration detention centre.


China's first coronavirus hospital opens as empty building is rapidly converted in just TWO days into 1,000-bed unit