‘Deeply concerning’ coronavirus cases prompt WHO to consider emergency 
 The World Health Organisation’s emergency committee will convene on Thursday to reconsider its decision not to declare a global public health emergency over the spread of the Wuhan coronavirus after “deeply concerning” new cases emerged, agency officials announced Wednesday.
The United Nations body said last week that it was “too early” to announce a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC) over the outbreak, citing lack of evidence of human-to-human transmission outside China.


But since then, at least six cases where the infected individual had not travelled to China had emerged, said Michael Ryan, executive director of the WHO’s health emergencies programme.
As of Wednesday, almost 7,200 people in mainland China are confirmed to have contracted the pneumonia-like illness, known as 2019-nCoV or the novel coronavirus, most of them coming from the contagion’s epicentre of Wuhan, capital of Hubei province. Dozens of international cases have been confirmed, mostly across Asia.
A further 37 deaths reported by Hubei authorities in the early hours of Thursday morning brought the death toll to 170. All those fatalities have occurred in China.


One of the recent cases of human-to-human transmission outside of China occurred in Germany, when a 33-year-old German man contracted the illness from a visiting Chinese colleague, who was asymptomatic during her time in Germany and only began to feel unwell just before she returned to China.
Such evidence of human-to-human transmission outside of China was “deeply concerning”, said WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, adding that cases abroad held “the potential for a much larger outbreak.”
China faces bigger epidemic than Sars in ‘grave’ coronavirus outbreak
A WHO decision on whether the outbreak now constitutes a global public health emergency is expected to be announced on Thursday evening in Geneva, following the emergency committee’s meetings.
Tedros apologised on Wednesday for a WHO situational report published over the weekend that said the global risk from the Wuhan coronavirus was “moderate”. The wording, later amended to “high”, was due to “human error in preparing the report”, he said in a thread on Twitter.
The WHO has also come under fire for its officials’ full-throated praise of the Chinese government’s transparency in its response to the outbreak, contrasting with rising criticism that the government and its official media organs have downplayed the severity of the virus.

“I strongly advocated on air for [WHO] to declare a global health emergency today,” Eric Feigl Ding, an epidemiologist and health economist at Harvard University’s Chan School of Public Health, said in a Twitter post on Monday.
“The facts are pretty clear this #coronoavirus #nCoV2019 epidemic is no longer localized to China and has higher pandemic risk than SARS.”
The mayor of Wuhan offered to resign this week over failures to disclose information about the disease in a timely way, while health workers fighting the epidemic on the front line have complained of being stretched beyond capacity.
Five arrested in Malaysia for spreading fake news about coronavirus
Even as both domestic and global cases continue to rise, with no vaccine yet created and the precise source of the contagion still unknown, China’s foreign minster Wang Yi recently told British foreign secretary Dominic Raab that the epidemic was “generally controllable and curable”.
In the face of criticism for his organisation’s lauding of Beijing’s response to the outbreak, Tedros said he would “praise China again and again.”
“Its actions actually helped in reducing the spread of coronavirus to other countries,” he said, pointing to the fact that Chinese authorities had proactively raised the alarm with their German counterparts after the woman who returned from Germany was positively diagnosed.

FOLKS— I say it’s high time that @WHO finally declares an EMERGENCY ASAP for #coronavirus. Last Thursday Jan 23rd when WHO punted, there wasn’t much data. Since then, a ground swell of data all point to an impending global pandemic. Top experts agree. Let’s make @WHO hear it!
— Dr. Eric Feigl-Ding (@DrEricDing) January 27, 2020

Ryan, who had also recently travelled to China, said he had “never seen the scale [or] commitment of an epidemic response at this level in terms of all-of government involvement … with tremendous support being poured into Wuhan and Hubei from the central government with a highly organised emergency management structure”.
“The challenge is great but the response has been massive,” he said, adding that Beijing had agreed to a WHO-led mission to travel to China and work with experts there to carry out investigations into the transmission of the disease and its “clinical severity”.
A number of “critical unknowns” about the illness remain, said Maria Van Kerkhove, a member of the WHO’s emergency committee and head of the outbreak investigation task force at the Pasteur Institute’s Centre for Global Health in Paris.
“There are specific epidemiological-type studies [and] clinical studies that need to take place so that we can better understand and characterise the transmission characteristics of this virus,” Van Kerkhove said.
As surveillance and detection mechanisms improved, there could be an increase in the proportion of cases “on the more mild end of the spectrum”, she said.
Current WHO estimates put the rate of severe cases at around 20 per cent. The fatality rate currently stands at just over 2 per cent, significantly lower than those of Sars and Mers, two other respiratory illnesses with which the Wuhan coronavirus is closely related.
Additional reporting by Bhavan Jaipragas

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

More from South China Morning Post:China faces bigger epidemic than Sars in ‘complicated and grave’ coronavirus outbreak‘Made in China’: how Wuhan coronavirus spread anti-Chinese racism like a disease through AsiaChina virus: Hong Kong must declare total shutdown of border to tackle outbreakChina coronavirus: Vietnam flags likely human transmission case of father from Wuhan infecting sonChina coronavirus: public health measures will hurt economy in the first quarter, analysts sayFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.