Medical teams prepare for Christmas Island as coronavirus death toll reaches 170 
 The US and Japan have begun evacuating citizens from the Hubei province in China, while the Morrison government announced on Wednesday the Australians in Hubei would be given the option of evacuating to Christmas Island for a 14-day quarantine period.
Loading
Opposition Leader Anthony Albanese blasted this decision, suggesting the government was using the island's detention centre out of "embarrassment" and questioning whether the measure had been taken just to be "seen to be doing something at Christmas Island other than holding a press conference for Scott Morrison.”
Health Minister Greg Hunt said the decision was made on the advice from the chief medical officers, and it was unanimously supported by the states and territories.
“Our job is to protect Australian citizens as well as provide support for those citizens overseas,” he said.

However, he said if people transported to Christmas Island become ill enough to require a medical transfer to a mainland Australian hospital, "we would do that immediately".
He said Australian medical assistance teams were readying for the evacuees to arrive.
"They’ve secured medical personnel and they are prepared to deploy to Christmas Island, and they are forward deploying today," he said.
Australians in China among global cases
Mr Hunt also confirmed two Australians did contract the coronavirus in China’s Guangdong province and received treatment there.

“The advice that I have, and I would want to be cautious, is they have been released and are not seeking consular assistance at this stage,” he said.
Professor Kelly said while experts were now certain it was possible for people to transmit the virus before they had symptoms, people could only transmit it via droplets from sneezing and coughing.
“In terms of walking past people in the street who may or may not be infected, that is also virtually totally safe,” he said.
“When we’re talking about contact we’re really talking about close contact over a period of time.”

The World Health Organisation's (WHO) emergencies chief said on Wednesday China was taking "extraordinary measures in the face of an extraordinary challenge".
Dr Michael Ryan spoke at a news conference after returning from a trip to Beijing to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping and other senior government leaders. He said the epidemic remains centred in the city of Wuhan and in Hubei province but that "information is being updated and is changing by the hour".
Dr Ryan said the few cases of human-to-human spread of the virus outside China - in Japan, Germany, Canada and Vietnam - were part of the reason the UN health agency's director-general has reconvened an expert committee to meet on Thursday. It will assess whether the outbreak should be declared a global emergency.
With Anthony Galloway, AAP

 Rachel Clun is a journalist at The Sydney Morning Herald.