Christmas Island asylum seekers WILL be kept away coronavirus evacuees 
 Evacuees flown from the coronavirus-stricken Chinese city of Wuhan to Christmas Island will be kept away from a family held there while fighting deportation.

Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton says common areas in the detention centre on the island will not be used.

He said those taken to the island will be kept away from the Tamil Biloela family being held there as they fight deportation to Sri Lanka.

WHAT ARE THE SYMPTOMS OF THE CORONAVIRUS? Once someone has caught the virus it may take between two and 14 days for them to show any symptoms. If and when they do, signs include: The vast majority of patients – at least 97 per cent, based on available data – will recover from these without any issues or medical help. In a small group of patients, who seem mainly to be the elderly or those with long-term illnesses, it can lead to pneumonia.  Pneumonia is an infection in which the insides of the lungs swell up and fill with fluid. It makes it increasingly difficult to breathe and, if left untreated, can be fatal and suffocate people.

Sri Lankan couple Priya and Nades Murugappan, and their Australian-born daughters Kopika and Tharunicaa, are being held in detention on the island.

'Completely separate area from that which we're talking about now,' Mr Dutton told media on Thursday.

He said each person would be assessed individually by the hazardous materials team on the island.

'People will stay within the centre until we get medical clearance for them to come out,' Mr Dutton said.

If people are isolated they will be kept away from others for 14 days.

'People who have come from China from the province will be restricted to the isolation area ... so people won't be coming or going.'

'My message, very clear message, to the people on Christmas Island is that we won't be using the medical centre or health facilities on Christmas Island, we won't be using other areas, common areas, on Christmas Island.'