Wuhan Coronavirus: Death toll reaches 170 | India News - Times of India 
 China's National Health Commission said on Thursday that 1,370 patients remained in critical conditions, and 12,167 people were suspected of being infected with the virus by the end of Wednesday. A total of 124 people have been discharged from hospital after recovery. 

 

A total of 1,737 new confirmed cases, including the first in Tibet, and 4,148 new suspected cases, and 38 deaths - 37 in Hubei Province and one in Sichuan Province - were reported by Wednesday. 

 

A total of 88,693 close contacts had been traced, the commission said, adding that among them, 2,364 were discharged from medical observation on Wednesday, with 81,947 others still under medical observation, state-run Xinhua news agency reported. 

 

In Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, 10 confirmed cases were reported by Wednesday. 

 

So far, five cases of coronavirus have been diagnosed in the United States, none of them fatal. 

 

A family of four Chinese tourists in the United Arab Emirates became the Mideast's first cases of the virus.

A number of global airlines, including Air India, British Airways, Lion Air and Indigo airlines on Wednesday suspended their flights to Chinese cities. 

 

British Airways halted all flights to China and American Airlines suspended Los Angeles flights to and from Shanghai. 

 

Air India and South Korean budget carrier Seoul Air are also halting all flights to the country, and Indonesia's Lion Air plans to do the same. Other carriers including Finnair, Hong Kong-based Cathay Pacific, and Singapore-based Jetstar Asia are slashing service. 

 

Air India suspended its flights on Delhi-Shanghai route from January 31 to February 14. IndiGo airlines also suspended its flights on the Bengaluru-Hong Kong route from February 1 and on the Delhi-Chengdu route from February 1 to 20. 

 

Beijing too has been asking Chinese not to travel at home and abroad in view of the virus.

US companies in China struggle to re-open In a conference call Tuesday, Apple CEO Tim Cook said the company's suppliers in China have been forced to delay reopening factories that closed for the Lunar New Year holiday until Feb. 10. 

 

Isaac Larian, CEO of MGA Entertainment, the maker of the popular LOL dolls, said he's nervous that many workers won't come back to factories and they may close. 

 

Starbucks' shares tumbled 2.5% Wednesday after the company said it will take a financial hit from store closures in China. The Seattle-based coffee giant said more than half of its 4,292 stores in China are now closed. China represented 10% of Starbucks' revenue during its most recent quarter. 

 

By contrast, McDonald's shares were up 2% Wednesday after the company said the financial impact so far has been minimal. McDonald closed several hundred restaurants, including all of its properties in Hubei province. But 3,000 remain open elsewhere in the country. China accounts for 4-5% of McDonalds' revenue.

Asian stocks slipped while gold and bonds were in demand on Thursday as worries about the spread of a new virus from China sent investors heading for safety. 

 

The Federal Reserve kept interest rates unchanged on Wednesday, as expected, although bank Chairman Jerome Powell's comments about a low inflation outlook added to U.S. government bonds' appeal. 

 

MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan fell 0.8% to an almost seven-week low. Japan's Nikkei fell 1%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng extended Wednesday's drop and Taiwan's benchmark index opened 1.5% lower in its first session since the Lunar New Year break. 

 

Yields on benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasuries, which fall when prices rise, tumbled nearly 9 basis points overnight to 1.5790%, and drifted lower to 1.5750% in Asian trade, not far above a three-month low of 1.5700% hit on Tuesday.

How is China trying to contain the virus China has cut off access to the central city of Wuhan, epicenter of the outbreak, and 16 other cities to prevent people from leaving and spreading the virus further. That has trapped more than 50 million people in the most far-reaching disease control measures ever imposed. The outbreak has infected more than 6,000 on the mainland and abroad. 

 

Villages on the outskirts of Beijing closed themselves off to outsiders, with residents blocking roads with piles of earth and standing guard to prevent outsiders and their vehicles from entering. 

 

In 48 hours, over 500 construction workers converted an empty building into a 1,000-bed hospital in the Huangzhou district. Originally, the hospital was to open in May. In addtition, four pre-fabricated buildings are being moddeled to be used as medical health centres. China's government is also constructing a brand new hospital in Wuhan where currently hundereds of construction workers are working round the clock.

Nearly 200 Americans airlifted from China in the midst of the coronavirus outbreak arrived on Wednesday at a U.S. military base in California, where they will remain isolated for at least 72 hours. In Tokyo, the second group of Japanese evacuees arrived aboard a government-chartered flight. The European Union was working to bring back 600 citizens from 14 countries. 

 

Sporting events in China were also postponed and Olympic qualifying tournaments were moved elsewhere. China's women's soccer team was quarantined in Australia ahead of an Olympic qualifying tournament. None of the players has shown symptoms. 

 

More than a dozen nations with a handful of cases — including the United States — are isolating patients and monitoring their contacts, as well as screening travelers from China and urging people to postpone trips there.

What is new in the China virus outbreak Scientists have identified the illness as a new kind of coronavirus. Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses, some of which cause the common cold. Others have evolved into more severe illnesses, such as SARS and MERS, although so far the new virus does not appear to be as deadly or contagious. 

 

Symptoms of the new virus include fever, cough and shortness of breath. But whether this virus can be contained depends on factors still unknown, like just how contagious it is and when in the course of the infection the virus starts to spread. 

 

Among patients with the Wuhan coronavirus, about 20% have become seriously ill, and the rest have a mild illness, the WHO said at a news briefing on Wednesday. So far, the death rate appears to be about 2%, but that is not certain yet. Those who die tend to be older people with underlying ailments. The median age of the first 425 patients in China was 59, and a little more than half were male, according to a report published in The New England Journal of Medicine on Wednesday. 

 

Diseases caused by related coronaviruses are deadlier: SARS killed 10%, and MERS about 35%. 

 

But if the new virus were to spread even more widely and a 2% mortality rate continued, the death toll could be considerable. Seasonal flu, with a much lower overall death rate of 0.1%, kills more than half a million people worldwide every year.