Toronto mayor takes stand against anti-Chinese discrimination amid coronavirus fears 
 Toronto Mayor John Tory took an emphatic stand against the stigmatization of and discrimination against Chinese-Canadians as public fears about the coronavirus epidemic continue to spread.Standing with our Chinese community against stigmatization  discrimination, and reminding residents that, as our health care professionals have informed us, the risk of Coronavirus to our community remains low. We must not allow fear to triumph over our values as a city. pic.twitter.com/S1xbdsfvl0 John Tory (@JohnTory) January 29, 2020 Tory’s public statement was meant to combat apparent beliefs from some people that Chinese communities in Canada should be avoided because of infection risk. Tory said that idea was “entirely inconsistent” with the advice of medical professionals."It is ill-founded and in fact could lead to a situation in which we are less safe, because it spreads misinformation at a time when people are in more need than ever of real information and real facts," he added.On Tuesday, CBC reported on the feelings of stigma and racism that Chinese-Canadians have experienced in recent weeks due to misinformation about coronavirus. There have been two confirmed cases in Toronto so far, but Kerry Bowman, a bioethicist at the University of Toronto, explained that there’s no need for people to be isolated based on their ethnicity or where they’d recently traveled. They should only be quarantined if they show symptoms of coronavirus."It's very important to not let our response and how we react to this be driven by paranoia. We need to listen to the facts," he said.Joining the mayor in speaking out against these false beliefs was Toronto Public Health’s Medical Officer, Eileen de Villa, whose statement reassured Canadians that the risk of coronavirus to the community is low.“Inaccurate information continues to spread and this is creating unnecessary stigma against members of our community,” de Villa wrote. “I am deeply concerned and find it disappointing that this is happening. Discrimination is not acceptable. It is not helpful and spreading misinformation does not offer anyone protection.”