De Blasio’s ‘sanctuary city’ laws leave NYC at the mercy of dangerous criminals: Devine 
 A predatory child molester and an alleged rapist are among the illegal immigrants released under Mayor de Blasio’s sanctuary-city laws in the last six weeks.

Why doesn’t the mayor look the victims in the eye and tell them how compassionate he is?

Spare a thought for the child, younger than 11, who was the victim of Andres Peña Perez, a 23-year-old illegal immigrant from Colombia.

Perez pleaded guilty in Manhattan Supreme Court last December to sexually assaulting the child and was released, pending sentencing.

That’s when the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency should have picked him up and started deportation proceedings.

ICE officers did their job after Perez’s fingerprints triggered a warning on their database. They issued a detention order so they could arrest him as he left jail.

But, of course, that’s not what happened.

The New York City Department of Correction ignored ICE’s detainer on Perez, because that’s what it has been commanded to do by de Blasio’s sanctuary policies.

So, Perez walked free on Dec. 18 and remained at large for four weeks. That’s how long it took ICE to track him down.

He is currently in ICE custody awaiting immigration proceedings that should see him thrown out of the country.

“It is unbelievable that a city would . . . restrict cooperation between law-enforcement agents in a case such as this, where the offender is convicted of a sexual offense against a child,” says Thomas Decker, ICE’s enforcement boss in New York.

His officers had to go searching for another alleged sexual predator last week, Volodymyr Polovko, a 51-year-old Ukrainian illegal immigrant.

Polovko was facing charges, including sexual abuse in the 1st degree, criminal obstruction of breathing or blood circulation by applying pressure, forcible sexual touching, and subjecting another person to sex contact without consent.


ICE lodged a detainer with NYPD’s Brooklyn Central Booking. Again, because of the city’s sanctuary policies, the detainer was ignored and Polovko was released.

Again, ICE had to track him down. He is now in custody awaiting deportation.

It was a similar story with Adrian Moran-Torres, a 34-year-old illegal Mexican immigrant, arrested by the NYPD last November on serious assault charges against a child less than 17.

Again, ICE issued a detainer with NYPD’s Brooklyn Central Booking. Again, it was ignored.

Again, two months later, only thanks to the diligence of ICE officers, was he tracked down. He is about to be deported.

But these were the unlucky bad guys. Decker says that, every week, between 70 and 100 criminal illegal immigrants are released under de Blasio’s sanctuary laws, and ICE can’t find them all.

“We have people that are committing sexual crimes against children and they are released to go out and re-commit [the crimes].

“It doesn’t make sense . . . Basically what the sanctuary law is doing is trying to eliminate immigration laws.”

Decker says ICE currently is searching for two more child molesters freed by the city despite being subject to a detainer: in The Bronx, a 42-year-old Mexican with pending charges for rape of a child younger than 13 years old; in Brooklyn, a 39-year-old Frenchman with pending charges for criminal sexual acts on a victim less than 11 years old.

The cops on the street don’t want to defy ICE requests, especially since Albany’s bail “reforms” this year have made it so hard to keep offenders off the streets.

“The police officers, they’re with us,” says Decker, a 57-year-old military veteran from New Jersey. “They risk their lives every day making the community safe and then the bad guys are back on the street.”

But, for the police administration, defying ICE is a “badge of honor” he says.

The NYPD complied with only 10 of 7,526 detainers Decker’s office filed last year.

If it had cooperated with ICE, 92-year-old Maria Fuertes would not have been raped and murdered, allegedly by an illegal immigrant, outside her home in Queens three weeks ago.

After her murder, acting ICE Director Matthew Albence placed the blame on de Blasio: “Make no mistake, it is this city’s sanctuary policies that are the sole reason that this criminal was allowed to roam the streets freely and end an innocent woman’s life,” he said.

ICE now has had to take the extraordinary step of issuing subpoenas against the city for information on other illegal immigrants, including a murderer and a rapist.

But de Blasio doesn’t care, dismissing the complaints as “fear, hate and attempts to divide [which] are signatures of the Trump administration, not New York City.”


He has vowed to stand by his “policies that have made us the safest big city in America.”

The mayor should explain how harboring rapists, pedophiles and violent thugs makes the city safer.

On Tuesday night at his rally in New Jersey, President Trump railed against sanctuary policies, which result in “dangerous predators being set free.”

“I could read and state these cases to you all night . . . No American should ever be hurt, harmed or killed because left-wing politicians — Democrats — decided to shield and shelter criminals.”

But Trump has been threatening to crack down on sanctuary cities for three years, and de Blasio keeps thumbing his nose at federal law.

Enough with the tough talk, Mr. President. Withhold federal funds from sanctuary cities and start charging recalcitrant officials with contempt.

Tragedy probe a tragedy

As 8-year-old Thomas Valva is buried today, Suffolk County is running from accountability for the abuse he suffered, allegedly at the hands of his sadistic father.


Suffolk County Executive Steve Bellone promised a “top-to-bottom” investigation into why multiple warnings to Child Protective Services were ignored. But the very people who failed Thomas are investigating themselves, so how can we trust the results?

The investigation also should include the judges who stripped Thomas and his brothers from the custody of their mother, Justyna Zubko-Valva, in 2017.

“I told the judges, if you’re not going to remove my children [from their father] they’re going to die,” she told reporters Monday outside the Long Island courthouse where she was awarded temporary custody of her two surviving sons.

Bellone’s office has ignored multiple requests for an interview, so you can only assume he wants the story to go away.

China policy shouldn’t fly

Why are airplanes from China still landing in the United States when the deadly coronavirus is twice as infectious as SARS and millions of people are in lockdown in China?

With an incubation period of 14 days, it is pointless to screen passengers at airports by checking their temperatures.

They could be carrying the disease and have no symptoms. Then off they go to infect the rest of us.

It’s a bit late for the federal government to start “considering” a ban on flights to and from China.

The horse has bolted.