Coronavirus scare: Health experts urge people to be cautious but not panicky 
 LAHORE: Health experts are of the view that outbreak of a new strain of coronavirus in China should be a cause of caution but not for alarm.

“The story of the coronavirus, first reported in China last month, now seems to be reaching the point where public concern tips into worry and even fear,” said veteran virologist Prof Waheeduz Zaman Tariq at a training session at the University of Health Sciences (UHS) on Wednesday.

Prof Waheed who heads Infectious Diseases’ department at Chughtai Institute of Pathology, Lahore, added that sounding the alarm unnecessarily had dangers of its own.

“People may fail to pay heed next time, or may overreact this time. Equally, muting discussions can backfire, especially in a world where information can be shared so quickly. It is essential that authorities at all levels are open about this outbreak, as well as assiduous in tackling it,” he suggested.

Prof Waheed further said, “new outbreaks are worrying, but give us opportunities to improve our preparation for the next threat, be that through research, or an understanding that communication is as essential to disease control as hand-washing and vaccines.”

He, however, cautioned that as too little information is available to draw firm conclusions about this virus, its dangers, therefore, should not be discounted.

“Its cost has already been felt by the young, the elderly and those with existing medical issues, and there is concern that it could mutate into something worse,” Prof Waheed said, adding that the virus, likely to spread through coughing and sneezing, had now sickened more than 6,000 people and killed 135 in China.

UHS Vice Chancellor Prof Javed Akram said the new strain of coronavirus, a family of pathogens that cause respiratory illness in birds and mammals, has jumped species and infected humans. As the pneumonia-causing virus has triggered a health scare in China, it would be sensible to be concerned.

He said the UHS would extend full support to the government in optimizing PCR test facilities for diagnosis of coronavirus. He said a six-member committee comprising varsity’s faculty had been constituted. Dr Shah Jahan is the convenor of the committee.

The UHS VC said ablutions was the most effective preventive measure against coronavirus. He said the Islamic concept of Hilal and our traditional way of cooking food minimised the risk of getting infected with the virus.

He further said that as compared to common masks available in market, N95 masks had proved more effective in prevention.

Director General Health Services Punjab Dr Haroon Jahangir said not a single case of coronavirus had been confirmed in the country. He said the government was in contact with the World Health Organization which had not declared coronavirus an epidemic so far.

Dr Haroon informed the audience that five airports of the province had been linked to nearby teaching hospitals to avert the threat of transfer of virus through passengers coming from abroad. He also lauded the efforts of the UHS for creating awareness on the issue.

UHS Microbiology department’s head Dr Sidra Saleem and Lahore Medical and Dental College’s Professor of Community Medicine Dr Fatima Mukthar also spoke.

Microbiologists, pathologist, rescue workers and health personnel from civil aviation attended the training workshop.