Coronavirus alert for hundreds of passengers on Melbourne flight 
 Global airlines, including British Airways, have suspended all flights to mainland China, while other airlines have also scaled back services to halt spread of the virus.
It comes as Lunar New Year celebrations in Melbourne’s east have been cancelled amid the outbreak.
The 2020 Box Hill Chinese New Year Festival, which was expected to draw tens of thousands of people on Saturday, has been postponed by organisers who cited "cultural and commercial reasons and out of respect for the difficulties currently being experienced by many people".
Diners at a popular Chinese restaurant, House of Delight, in Glen Waverley may have also been exposed to the coronavirus, with Victoria’s second case being confirmed on Wednesday.
The patient, a man in his 60s who had travelled to Wuhan in China, is now isolated and recovering at home.

Whitehorse mayor Sharon Ellis said she was shocked by the decision to cancel one of Melbourne's biggest annual Lunar New Year events and was hoping to have further discussions with organisers the Asian Business Association of Whitehorse (ABAW).
"I was taken aback because we weren't foreseeing this," Cr Ellis said. "But ultimately it's an ABAW event, so it's their call on whether or not it is cancelled."
Lunar New Year celebrations in Melbourne’s east have been cancelled amid the deadly coronavirus outbreak. Credit:AP
When asked whether she thought is was an overly cautious move, Cr Ellis said she understood the organisers' reasons for cancelling it.
"Sometimes people have to lean on the side of caution," Cr Ellis said. "If there are concerns, it can take the shine off the event."

The celebrations are expected to be rescheduled at a later date.
Asian Business Association of Whitehorse president Tom Zheng said in a statement: "This decision is acknowledged by the City of Whitehorse, who will continue to work with ABAW to reschedule the festival."
It remains unclear whether Lunar New Year celebrations in Carnegie, in Melbourne's south-east, will go ahead this weekend. Organisers have been contacted for comment.
Loading

As the coronavirus death toll rises to 170 people, the World Health Organisation has voiced "grave concerns" about the person-to-person spread of the virus in three other countries ahead of an emergency committee meeting to decide whether it now constitutes a global emergency.
There are 7711 cases reported within China. The outbreak has spread to more than a dozen countries, with more than 90 confirmed cases outside China.
Victoria’s chief health officer Dr Brett Sutton said the man in Glen Waverley became sick on January 23, two days after returning from China, and had remained isolated except for attending dinner with his family on Australia Day.
The man ate at the House of Delight restaurant, at Montclair Avenue in Glen Waverley, with five family members between 5.30pm and 7pm.
Dr Sutton urged anyone who was at the restaurant during this time to be aware of symptoms, but stressed the risk of diners contracting the virus was low.

“The risk of transmission although not absolutely excluded is very low,” he said. “That restaurant is OK to go to now, people don’t need to avoid the area or indeed anywhere else."
Loading
As of early Thursday morning, the restaurant appeared to have closed with a sign on its door suggesting it would not open until until February 9.
The news of the fresh cases came as federal health authorities asked all people who had had any contact with a confirmed case of coronavirus to isolate themselves in their homes for 14 days.
Meanwhile, NSW Health have confirmed the number of people in that state under investigation for the virus has jumped from six to 16.

Dr Sutton said the results of tests on 14 more Victorians were still pending while 61 people who were initially suspected of having the virus had come back with negative tests.
Monash University also announced it had postponed exams that were scheduled to start on February 3.

Melissa Cunningham is The Age's health reporter.