Health district investigates possible coronavirus case in Clark County 
 LAS VEGAS (FOX5) -- The Southern Nevada Health District announced Wednesday that they are investigating a possible case of coronavirus in Clark County.
SNHD said patient in question was placed in isolation at a local hospital, but wouldn't specify which hospital. The patient will be monitored and under medical supervision while the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention conducts testing, SNHD said.
“The Health District has been monitoring this situation and working closely with our health care partners to ensure they were prepared for potential patients,” acting SNHD Chief Health Officer Dr. Fermin Leguen said in a statement. “Our hospitals are very experienced in isolating and taking care of ill patients, and we will continue to coordinate the testing process and communications with our partners at the state and the CDC.”
SNHD said the patient was a Clark County resident traveling in China and came back to the United States Jan. 14. The patient did travel through McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas, the health district said.
The patient didn't exhibit any symptoms when they traveled, SNHD said, and arrived at the hospital on Jan. 28. Officials are still working to confirm if the patient has novel coronavirus.
Test results will be sent to the CDC Wednesday and results would be made available in 24-48 hours, according to the health district.
The health district said they would take steps to contact people who may have come in contact with the patient if the patient is confirmed to have coronavirus.
“It’s important to note its not a confirmed case but the patient has been hospitalized due to respiratory symptoms and a travel history that meets the criteria," said SNHD director of community health Dr. Michael Johnson. “It’s very likely the person would have come in asymptomatic through port of entry so they wouldn’t have had an increased temperature, fever, cough, or  shortness of breath.”
In a release, CDC said that while the coronavirus is considered a serious public health threat, the immediate risk to the U.S. public is believed to be low at this time.
SNHD said there are currently no confirmed cases in Clark County.
SNHD recommends the following measures to prevent the spread of respiratory viruses:
• Washing your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.
• Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth.
• Avoid close contact with people who are sick.
• Cover your coughing or sneezing with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.
• Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces.

                                
                                
                            


                            

                            
                                Copyright 2019 KVVU (KVVU Broadcasting Corporation). All rights reserved.