Fortescue monitors coronavirus outbreak as fears shut Chinese ports 
 "It is an evolving situation. But clearly we will monitor the situation very carefully."
Loading
Fortescue on Thursday said its shipments of iron ore had risen 9 per cent to 46.4 million tonnes in the December quarter on the back of last year's elevated demand from China's steel mills, bringing Fortescue's shipments for the first half of the financial year to a record high of 88.6 million tonnes.
Chinese appetite for Australian iron ore – Australia's single biggest export – could benefit in the first half of 2020 due to China's large-scale infrastructure investment, urbanisation and a tenuous pause in the US-China trade war which has been fuelling fears of economic slowdown.
Ms Gaines, who visited China to open Fortescue's new Shanghai office earlier this month, was optimistic on the outlook for China's steel production after canvassing views of customers, economists, analysts at the Chinese Iron and Steel Association. China produced an "astonishing" 996 million tonnes of steel in 2019, Fortescue said.

"We've certainly started this calendar year seeing these conditions continue with strong demand for iron ore and strength in the benchmark iron ore price," Ms Gaines said on Thursday.
"Our discussions a few weeks ago indicated the industry anticipates growth in crude steel production in calendar year 2020 in the range of 2 to 3 per cent."
Fortescue's quarterly production figures were slightly softer than investment bank UBS had forecast (46.7 million tonnes) but beat the expectations of RBC Capital and Markets.
"The result serves to highlight the leverage of the stock to the iron ore price," said RBC Capital Markets analyst Paul Hissey, who forecasts the iron ore price to remain elevated through the first half of the 2020 calendar year before declining in the second half.
"In the interim we expect the stock will remain an attractive proposition for those investors seeking iron ore exposure," he said.

Vivek Dhar, mining and energy analyst at the Commonwealth Bank, said the coronavirus was being compared to the SARS outbreak of 2003 which resulted in 775 deaths and contributed to China's economy slowing from 11.1 per cent a year in the first quarter of 2003 to 9.1 per cent in the second quarter.
Most of China has already been shut down this week for the annual Lunar New Year holiday. But many China-exposed companies worldwide are preparing for the prospect of a longer slowdown.
"The coming weeks, though, will be crucial to understanding the implications from the spread of the coronavirus as China returns from the Lunar New Year holiday period," Mr Dhar said.
Also on Thursday, Fortescue unveiled plans for a new US$450 million power generation project in the Pilbara to complement its US$250 million power transmission project announced in October.
The Pilbara generation project will include 150 megawatts of gas-fired generators coupled with 150 megawatts of solar panels and large-scale battery storage to provide low-cost power to the Iron Bridge magnetite project currently under construction.

Ms Gaines said the project could save up to 285,000 tonnes in carbon emissions every year.
Shares in Fortescue closed 2 per cent lower on Thursday to end the day at $11.29.

Business reporter for The Age and Sydney Morning Herald.

Hamish Hastie is WAtoday's business reporter.