Coronavirus: What travellers need to know 
 WHAT IS CORONAVIRUS AND WHERE DID IT START?

Coronavirus is a large family of viruses that can cause diseases ranging from the common cold to SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome), and MERS (Middle East respiratory syndrome). This particular strain has never been seen before, and is believed to have started in the city of Wuhan in China’s Hubei Province.

The World Health Organisation (WHO) believes an animal was the “primary source” of the outbreak, and Wuhan authorities identified a seafood market as the centre of the epidemic.

While the virus came from an animal, it is now being transmitted from person to person, and has spread throughout China, reaching the major cities of Beijing, Shanghai, and Hong Kong.

WHAT ARE THE SYMPTOMS AND HOW IS IT TREATED?

Symptoms of coronavirus include a runny nose, cough, sore throat, headache, fever, and difficulty breathing. For those with weakened immune systems there’s a chance the virus could cause a lower, and much more serious, respiratory tract illness like pneumonia or bronchitis.

The WHO advises that anyone experiencing any of these should seek medical care early and share their previous travel history with their health care provider.

Australia’s Smartraveller website also advises to ring ahead of time to explain the situation, so doctors are aware of what to expect. There is no vaccine for this coronavirus strain and no umbrella treatment. instead, symptoms are treated individually.

Authorities in China have placed strict restrictions on domestic travel, Chinese travel agencies have been told to halt all group tours, and public events have been cancelled. The Lunar New Year holiday has also been pushed back (by at least three days) to try to avoid the spread of the virus.

The Australian Government’s has now upgraded its travel advice level for China from ‘exercise normal safety precautions’ to ‘reconsider your need to travel’, while the travel advice for Hubei Province is ‘do not travel’.

The advice levels for Tibet and Xinjiang have also been raised to ‘exercise a high degree of caution’.

Australian travellers should seek the most up-to-date information on travel to China by visiting the Smartraveller website.

The Australian Government’s advice level for Hong Kong was already sitting at ‘exercise a high degree of caution’ due to issues of safety in relation to the city’s ongoing violent protests. But the Hong Kong Government has activated its Emergency Response Level in relation to the coronavirus. Smartraveller advises that passengers arriving into Hong Kong may undergo temperature screening at all border control points, and any visitor with symptoms may be taken to hospital for further testing. If authorities suspect a traveller is infected, they need to stay in hospital or be quarantined. A dedicated web page has been set up by the Hong Kong Centre for Health and Protection.

Under Australian law, airlines must report to officials any passengers showing signs of infection. According to the Smartraveller website, “planes reporting ill travellers are met on arrival by biosecurity officers who make an assessment and take necessary actions, such as isolation and referral to hospital where required”.

Anyone who has recently travelled to Hubei Province and developed symptoms of respiratory illness should contact a doctor.

Outside of China, confirmed cases of the virus have been confirmed in countries including Australia, Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore, Nepal, Malaysia, the United States and France.

If you are considering travelling to any destination with detected cases of the coronavirus, there are precautions to follow to protect against infection.

WHO says transmission of the coronavirus can be reduced by following this advice:

– Clean hands frequently with soap and water or alcohol-based hand rub.

– Cover nose and mouth when coughing and sneezing with a tissue or flexed elbow.

– Throw tissue into a closed bin directly after use

– Avoid close contact with anyone with cold or flu-like symptoms.

– Wash hands after: coughing or sneezing, when being in contact with a sick person, before, during and after food preparation, before eating, after toilet use, when hands are visibly dirty, and after handling animals or animal waste

– In areas experiencing outbreaks, consume only thoroughly cooked animal products.

– When visiting markets: Avoid touching eyes, nose, and mouth, avoid contact with spoiled meat, and avoid contact with stray animals, waste, and fluids.

The Smartraveller website also advises travellers to monitor their health closely, to follow local advice, and to see a health care professional immediately if feeling unwell.

The Smartraveller website states “it is not known whether wearing a face mask will reduce your risk of exposure to the novel coronavirus”.

Macquarie University health systems professor Janaki Amin has also said the masks do not protect from the virus. “Masks used for the spread of infectious diseases are to stop infected people spreading it to others, not to protect you from infection yourself,” Dr Amin told AAP.

Airports around the world are stepping up their screening procedures to detect any passengers displaying symptoms of coronavirus.

Travellers should contact their airline or travel company for information about changes to flight services.

If a holiday is cancelled after an official travel warning about a pandemic has been released, not all travel insurance policies will cover these cancellations.

“Travel insurance exists to cover the unforeseen, not events travellers are already aware of,” says Natalie Ball, director of Compare Travel Insurance. “Many policies will not cover pandemics as a general rule. However, it is worth being mindful that certain insurers may still pay out cancellation benefits provided your policy was purchased before a warning was issued.”

If a trip needs to be cancelled due to government restrictions (after a pandemic), Natalie says that some companies (such as Columbus Direct, Go Insurance, InsureandGo, Tick Travel Insurance and Travel Insuranz) will pay a benefit if the policy was purchased before a warning was issued.

Natalie adds that other providers (such as Allianz, Fastcover and 1Cover) list pandemics and epidemics as a ‘general exclusion’, so according to the black and white print, there is no cover, irrelevant of when you purchased your policy.

If someone travels to an affected country and contracts coronavirus, in most instances medical costs would be covered.

“If travellers end up in a medical emergency overseas due to the virus, your travel insurer is likely to do everything they can to assist you. This not only includes covering the costs for medical treatment, but also providing support and updates to family members where appropriate,” says Ball.