Wuhan coronavirus spreads as countries evacuate citizens from China 
 Hong Kong (CNN) The number of confirmed cases of the Wuhan coronavirus continues to grow worldwide, as the city at the heart of the outbreak marks a week since it was first placed under lockdown .

More than 7,700 cases of the virus have been confirmed in China as of Wednesday evening, including 170 deaths, according to the country's National Health Commission. This marks an increase of almost 30% in the number of cases from the previous day.

The continued rise in the number of infections comes as multiple countries evacuate their citizens from Wuhan

Worldwide, more than a hundred cases have been confirmed across nearly 20 countries and territories, spanning North America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Most concerning, instances of human-to-human transmission have been reported overseas, including in Germany, the first such case in Europe.

The World Health Organization (WHO) will meet again on Thursday to decide whether to declare the virus a global health emergency, something it has so far refrained from doing, despite widespread criticism.

In Wuhan itself, 11 million people are marking a week on lockdown with no sign of immediate relief. Nor is there firm evidence that their sacrifice has been worth it, with the virus spreading around the country and scientists warning that other major cities could soon become self-sustaining epidemics.

Those planes may soon have a lot more sky to themselves, as multiple major carriers have announced they are canceling flights to and from parts of China, including British Airways, American Airlines, Air Canada, KLM, Lufthansa and United. The moves follow travel guidance from multiple governments advising against "nonessential" travel to the country.

Across Asia and elsewhere, strict checks and screening have been put in place for all travelers arriving from China -- though this may be ineffective as scientists previously warned that the virus can be spread while patients are asymptomatic.

Papua New Guinea said it will refuse entry to travelers coming from "any Asian ports," while the semi-autonomous Chinese city of Hong Kong has introduced new limits it says will cut the amount of mainland Chinese travelers coming to the city by 80%.

Is it enough?

Across China, the Lunar New Year holiday has been extended to next week, a potentially huge economic hit for a country already feeling the pain of the US-China trade war.

Some 60 million people across Hubei, the province of which Wuhan is the capital, are on some level of lockdown, and many travelers from the region have been ordered to self-quarantine, holed up in their apartments or hotel rooms for days on end.

While "Come on Wuhan!" has been a popular refrain online, and the country has largely pulled together to tackle the outbreak, there have also been reports of discrimination against Hubei residents, with them denied accommodation or entry to restaurants in other parts of the country.

As the country prepares to get back to work next week, there's also the looming question of whether enough has been done. While the Wuhan lockdown may have stopped the even greater spread of the virus, it was too late to prevent it reaching every part of the country.

"It is very difficult to definitely estimate when the outbreak reaches its peak. But I think in one week or about 10 days, it will reach the climax and then there will be no large-scale increases," Zhong said.

However, other experts have warned that while the outbreak in Hubei may peak in the coming weeks, other Chinese megacities may see self-sustaining epidemics that continue to spread the pathogen around the country and worldwide.

"We modeled epidemic curves out to August 2020 for all the major city clusters: Chongqing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Beijing. Chongqing is predicted to have the largest epidemic due to large population and most intense traffic volume coupled to Wuhan," Gabriel Leung, a leading Hong Kong researcher and public health expert, said earlier this week.

He said outbreaks in China's largest cities could peak in April or May and gradually slow in June and July.