Coronavirus in China: India shares ‘evacuation’ forms with citizens stuck in Wuhan | India News - Times of India 
 Medical workers in protective gear help a patient get out of an ambulance in Wuhan in central China's Hubei Pr...

NEW DELHI: The Indian embassy in Beijing on Wednesday started sharing “evacuation consent” forms online with Indians stuck in the coronavirus-hit Chinese city of Wuhan . A day earlier TOI had reported on the plight of Indians trapped in the city which is the epicentre of the virus outbreak.China has cut off access to Wuhan and 16 other cities in Hubei province to prevent people from leaving and spreading the virus further. Many Indians TOI spoke to said they were running out of food and other provisions while strict limitations on their mobility had taken a mental toll.The form, shared with TOI by a member of the WeChat group ‘Indians in Wuhan’, read that those evacuated will undergo “a mandatory 14 days quarantine” on arrival in India. It added that the “individuals would be directly informed about the date and logistics of the evacuation”.The form asked for full name, passport numbers, pick up location, details of contact person in India and whether the person was exhibiting any symptoms. It added that on the basis of medical checks as part of the evacuation process, a person could be rejected for evacuation or placed in quarantine in China.This clause seems to have added to their anxiety and confusion. Some said they have decided to opt out of the evacuation process. Gaurav Nath, a student at the Wuhan University of Science and Technology , told TOI, “What if they suspect us to be infected during the evacuation and put us in the hospital and we actually catch the infection there? It’s better to stay at the university.”Others who did not want to sign the form were concerned about missing their studies and worried about when they would be allowed to return. Earlier in the day, three students from Pakistan at WUST were admitted to the hospital on suspicion of infection. They were later cleared.The World Health Organisation has, however, said that the it “does not recommend the evacuation” of foreign nationals from virus-hit Hubei province.