Sydney man shares footage from centre of coronavirus outbreak 
 An Australian man trapped in China has shared what it’s like holed up in an apartment in the centre of the coronavirus outbreak.
Daniel Ou Yang, of Sydney, said his family had been trapped in the Wuhan apartment for more than a week.
Normally busy streets are empty and people have notices on their doors telling them not to leave.
“We’ve got two main roads on both sides of our apartment, which is normally congested in traffic 24/7, and this is the first time we have ever seen it like this,” Mr Ou Yang wrote.
“My city has become a ghost town.”

Mr Ou Yang shared footage of the deserted streets in his post.
“The city is empty, man,” he said.
“The population is 11 million people … and I can only see maybe one or two people on the street.
“All these streets are normally full of people. There’s no light rail running. All public transport has stopped. Motor vehicles have also been made to stop.”
Mr Ou Yang said everyone had a sign outside their door telling them not to leave the house.
“It hasn’t been too easy but it hasn’t been too hard,” he said.
“We’ve had to cancel a lot of our Chinese New Year celebrations. At the moment it hasn’t been too bad because it’s only been a week but if this drags on for multiple weeks, or even months, I do believe it’s going to get a bit stressful.”
Two Australians in China have been diagnosed with coronavirus.
Health Minister Greg Hunt said they were being treated and were not seeking consular assistance at this stage.
They were in Guangdong province, not Hubei province where the majority of cases have been located.
More than 600 Australians are waiting to be rescued from the coronavirus epicentre.
A 44-year-old man on the Gold Coast is the latest to be diagnosed with the infection that’s been confirmed in six other people in Australia — four in NSW and two in Victoria.
NSW Health has so far tested 50 people that have returned negative results, and seven more are under investigation.
There have been 7711 confirmed cases of coronavirus around the world.
The new virus has now infected more people in China than were sickened during the 2002-03 SARS outbreak.
On Wednesday, the number of cases in China jumped to 5974, surpassing the 5327 people diagnosed with SARS.
The death toll, which rose to 170 on Thursday, is lower than the 348 people who died in China from SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome.