Three Hong Kong universities judged ‘most international’ in world rankings 
 Hong Kong is home to three of the world’s “most international universities”, including City University (CityU), according to data compiled by the Times Higher Education World University Rankings.
Among 170 universities ranked worldwide, CityU came top followed by the University of Hong Kong (HKU), while Chinese University (CUHK) was ranked fifth, just after Switzerland’s Ecole Polytechnique and ETH Zurich.
China faces bigger epidemic than Sars in ‘grave’ coronavirus outbreak
The recognition comes when the local higher education institutions have been dragged into the city’s months-long anti-government protests.

The universities have been ranked based on an equal weight in four areas, including the proportions of international staff and students, authorship of publications with at least one international co-author, and their global standing.
Hong Kong’s universities beat off the likes of the National University of Singapore, which came seventh jointly with the University of Oxford. Cambridge University was placed eighth.
CityU was noted for having more than 400 exchange partners from 44 countries and regions, while more than 1,200 students of the university took part in exchange programmes each year.
New hope as students return to universities damaged in Hong Kong protests
HKU was credited with having 8,000 of more than 20,000 students coming from overseas while its education was seen as having an “international focus, with the aim of preparing students to become global citizens who could be successful anywhere in the world”.
CUHK has 6,000 students from more than 50 countries and it has amassed 270 partnerships with institutions from 30 counties.
The rankings, however, did not make any reference to the ongoing protests in Hong Kong.
Following episodes of intense, violent battles between protesters and police around CUHK and other parts of the city, HKU and CityU warned of a decline in the number of inbound exchange students. All the three universities will carry on their student exchange programmes, but some other institutions have suspended receiving foreign students for the current semester on safety grounds.
More from South China Morning Post:Hong Kong universities adopt safety first approach as protest fears force them to suspend student exchange programmesFrom war zone to ‘prison’: voices from Polytechnic University siege, site of some of the worst violence amid Hong Kong’s protest crisisHong Kong protests: Chinese University campus reopens after tear gas and petrol bomb carnage, with some wearing masks fearing toxic threatHong Kong protests: how the four-day occupation of Chinese University endedFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.