NZ charters plane to bring home Kiwis from coronavirus-hit Wuhan 
 New Zealand will go it alone on repatriating Kiwis in Wuhan, at the heart of the coronavirus outbreak, chartering a flight to bring citizens home.

Foreign Minister Winston Peters has announced the government will charter an Air New Zealand plane, with capacity for 300 passengers, to leave China - subject to Chinese approval.

Peters said New Zealanders should register on the Safetravel website to help with planning.

'We are pleased to be have been able to offer this assistance to New Zealanders in a challenging situation,' he said.

'New Zealand will be offering any additional seats to Pacific Island and Australian citizens as a matter of priority.'

On Wednesday, Australian prime minister Scott Morrison announced plans to charter a Qantas flight to bring Australians home, saying he was working in tandem with New Zealand to accommodate Kiwis also.

WHAT ARE THE SYMPTOMS OF THE CORONAVIRUS? Once someone has caught the virus it may take between two and 14 days for them to show any symptoms. If and when they do, typical signs include: The vast majority of patients – at least 97 per cent, based on available data – will recover from these without any issues or medical help. In a small group of patients, who seem mainly to be the elderly or those with long-term illnesses, it can lead to pneumonia.  Pneumonia is an infection in which the insides of the lungs swell up and fill with fluid. It makes it increasingly difficult to breathe and, if left untreated, can be fatal and suffocate people.

However, with 53 New Zealanders in Wuhan and Peters also suggesting accommodations could be made for family members and dependents, the Kiwi Government has taken its own action.

Peters didn't offer a timeframe for the emergency flight, other than saying they were 'working to have the aircraft depart as soon as possible'.

Kiwis will have to pay 'a nominal fee' for their place, with the New Zealand government to cover 'most of the cost' of the flight.

Upon arrival in New Zealand, travellers with symptoms are likely to be quarantined for up to a fortnight.

Director General of Health Ashley Bloomfield said he had no reason to believe the virus had reached Kiwi shores.

'We have a very small number of even possible cases and most of those people that have been tested ... are now no longer in hospital,' he said.

'Our border controls are very appropriate and in step with Australia.

'This is not the sort of virus you get by casually walking past someone on the street. People get infected by prolonged exposure in a close setting.'

Bloomfield said a number of quarantine options were being explored, 'ranging from isolating at home, a hotel or other facilities'.

Air New Zealand, which flies directly from Auckland to Shanghai, has not yet followed the lead of other airlines to cancel flights to the stricken country.

Other China-based airlines offering direct services are also continuing flights.