Business Live: Ficci survey projects FY20 GDP growth at 5%, to improve to 5.5% in FY21 
 Global demand for gold fell in the last three months of last year as sales of gold jewellery, bars and coins declined alongside purchases by central banks and financial investors, an industry report said on Thursday.

Central banks and investors had bought large amounts of gold earlier in the year, helping push gold prices up 18% in 2019 to the highest level since 2013. Gold is often seen by investors as a safe investment during times of political and economic uncertainty and becomes more popular when interest rates fall, as they did last year.

Higher prices, however, caused some buyers particularly retail consumers in top markets China and India - to reduce their purchases, the Refinitiv GFMS Gold Survey said.

Total physical demand for gold over October-December was 1,033 tonnes, down 9% from the same period in 2018, it said. Fabrication of gold jewellery fell 9% year-on-year in the fourth quarter to 509 tonnes, retail purchases of bars and coins were down 7% at 297 tonnes and central bank buying was 18% lower at 132 tonnes, according to the report.

Exchange-traded products holding gold on behalf of financial investors - which Refinitiv GFMS does not classify as physical demand - added 35 tonnes to their inventories, compared with 110 tonnes of additions in October-December 2018.

On the other side of the market, supply dipped 2% year-on-year in the fourth quarter to 1,185 tonnes, the report said. “While demand from key Asian markets will likely remain weak this year, ongoing central bank purchases and renewed investor interest will lend support for higher gold prices,” Refinitiv GFMS analysts said. “We therefore expect gold to average $1,558/oz in 2020, with a possibility to test and move beyond $1,700/oz later in the year.”

Zero-emission cars will be a road test of conglomerate power. Tata is drawing on expertise from across its $160 billion empire to support an electric vehicle initiative. Patriarch Ratan Tata attended Tuesdays unveiling of the Nexon EV in Mumbai along with bosses of more than a half-dozen related companies. If the plan works, it could deliver rare and valuable synergies.

The bold strategy signals a strong commitment to turn Tata Motors into a force in green cars. The Indian government, keen to reduce pollution and high oil import bills, wants 30% of new passenger vehicles sold to be electric by 2030, up from less than 1% of the 3.4 million sold in the year to March. But they are already popular for fleet customers and volumes will rise as battery costs fall and more models become available. Chinas Great Wall Motors, for example, is widely expected to roll out a super-cheap model in India next month.

Tatas collaborative effort should help accelerate sales. Tata Power, for example, will have 650 charging stations across the country over the next year. Owners of Tata-branded cars will have priority access and tariffs. Meanwhile, Tatas partnerships should in theory be less messy than the sorts of outside deals struck by Tesla with Panasonic and General Motors with LG Chem .

The Indian group is tapping many parts of the realm, allowing it to move faster. Tata AutoComp will assemble power packs, retail chain Croma is set to sell vehicles to its electronics customers and Tata Motors Finance will provide flexible financing. Tata Consultancy Service has built an app to make related payments and more. Tata Chemicals will explore recycling batteries, but the group wont have any obvious advantage in the global race to secure critical raw materials cobalt and lithium.

Even so, its a potentially lucrative way to extract value from a sprawling outfit. Few beyond entertainment powerhouse Walt Disney have mastered the form. Tata is tightlipped on how much money its various divisions are investing in the electric-vehicle push. In a fast-moving industry, though, Tata will need to ensure its in-house partners and suppliers stay competitive on quality and price. Itll be a corporate triumph to get the project humming on all cylinders. Reuters

Market benchmark Sensex dropped over 150 points in opening session on Thursday dragged by losses in Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and Infosys ahead of January derivatives’ expiry.

After opening 181 points higher, the 30-share BSE index turned volatile and surrendered all gains to trade 168.61 points or 0.41 per cent lower at 41,030.05.

Similarly, the broader NSE was trading 41.65 points, or 0.34 per cent, down at 12,087.85.

In the previous session, Sensex settled 231.80 points, or 0.57 per cent, higher at 41,198.66, and Nifty closed 73.70 points, or 0.61 per cent, up at 12,129.50.

Meanwhile, on a net basis, foreign institutional investors sold equities worth Rs 1,014.27 crore, while domestic institutional investors purchased shares worth Rs 1,520.90 crore on Wednesday, data available with stock exchanges showed.

Tata Steel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding up to 2 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries, Nestle India, Bharti Airtel, SBI, Kotak Bank and Infosys.

On the other hand, PowerGrid, NTPC, Hero MotoCorp, TCS and HCL Tech were trading on a positive note.

According to traders, benchmark indices turned highly volatile ahead of the expiry of January futures and options (F&O) contracts.

Further, weakness in other Asian bourses amid concerns over the impact of China’s coronavirus on world economy also weighed on domestic market, traders said.

Bourses in Hong Kong, Japan and South Korea were trading with sharp losses, while markets in China remained closed.

Benchmarks on Wall Street ended on a tepid note on Wednesday.

Brent crude oil futures fell 1.09 per cent to USD 58.27 per barrel.

The rupee depreciated 17 paise to 71.45 against the US dollar in morning session. PTI

Industry body Ficci on Wednesday said its Economic Outlook Survey has projected the country’s annual median GDP growth for 2019-20 at 5 per cent, in line with the projections made by the National Statistical Organisation (NSO).

The survey has put the median growth forecast for agriculture and allied activities at 2.6 per cent for 2019-20, the industry and services sector at 3.5 per cent and 7.2 per cent, respectively, during the current year.

“Growth is likely to improve to 5.5 per cent in 2020-21 as per the projections,” the survey said.

Further as per the survey, the economic growth has been pegged at 4.7 per cent for the third quarter of 2019-20.

The survey was conducted during December and January 2019-20 amongst economists belonging to the industry, banking and financial services sector, Ficci said.

As per the first advance estimates of the national income released by the NSO, India’s GDP growth is seen dipping to an 11-year low of 5 per cent in the current fiscal, mainly due to poor showing by manufacturing and construction sectors.

The survey further said concerns remain on external front with exports projected to contract in 2019-20.

Merchandise exports are expected to decline by 2.1 per cent, while imports are expected to decline 5.5 per cent during the year, it said.

Moreover, median current account deficit forecast was pegged at 1.4 per cent of GDP for 2019-20.

“Moderation in global growth forecast, escalating geo-political tensions, and uncertainty around trade deal between US-China and BREXIT outcome still form major risk factors to India’s growth in 2020,” it said.

Participating economists said that a shortfall in government’s revenue collections seems imminent this year on the back of lower than anticipated nominal growth.

To augment government’s revenue collections, they called for measures to boost the country’s nominal GDP growth.

Citing weak consumption demand as a major impediment to India’s growth, economists cautioned against any changes in the GST rates to improve revenue collections as it would prove to be counterproductive, Ficci said.

Economists recommended undertaking expansionary fiscal and monetary policies along with a slew of reforms to tackle the structural problems facing the economy. PTI