Coronavirus Live Updates: Death Toll From Mystery Illness Rises to 170 
 China now has more cases of the virus than it had of SARS — but comparing the two is tricky. 
Cases of the mysterious new coronavirus in mainland China now outnumber the infections that China saw during the entire SARS outbreak of 2002 and 2003, officials said on Thursday. 
SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, ultimately killed 774 people in 17 countries. The Chinese authorities were criticized for their response to that epidemic, which began inside its borders. 
By Thursday, the number of confirmed cases of the new coronavirus had risen to 7,711 worldwide, according to Chinese officials and the World Health Organization. All but 68 of those infections have been in mainland China.   
Experts cautioned that comparing the two diseases was difficult. Tracking SARS infections was complicated by a dearth of testing equipment and a lack of transparency among local politicians and the central government. While officials say China has made progress on those fronts, similar concerns threaten to undermine an accurate count of infections from the new coronavirus, known to scientists as 2019-nCoV.    


Preliminary figures suggest the new coronavirus is less likely to result in death than SARS, which killed 1 in 10 infected patients, but it is still too early to paint a full picture of its mortality rate. 
By comparison, MERS, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, another coronavirus, killed 1 in 3 patients. The mortality rate of seasonal flu is about 1 in 1,000.  
170 people have died. More than 7,711 cases have been confirmed. 


◆ Thirty-eight more deaths in China from the coronavirus were announced on Thursday, bringing the toll to 170. Most of those recent deaths, 37, occurred in Hubei Province, the center of the outbreak. One person died in the southwestern province of Sichuan.  
◆ Another 1,737 new cases were recorded in the past 24 hours for a total of 7,711 worldwide, according to Chinese officials and the World Health Organization. The real number is likely to be higher.    


◆ Tibet reported its first confirmed case. This means that all of China’s provinces and territories have now been touched by the outbreak.  
◆ Thailand has reported 14 cases of infection; Hong Kong has 10; the United States, Taiwan, Australia and Macau have five each; Singapore, South Korea and Malaysia each have reported four; Japan has 11; France has five; Germany has four; Canada has three; Vietnam has two; and Nepal, Cambodia and the United Arab Emirates each have one. 
◆ Cases recorded in Taiwan, Germany, Vietnam and Japan involved patients who had not been to China. There have been no reported deaths outside China.
Mask hoarders may raise the risk of an outbreak in the United States.


American stores are selling out of masks, and health care workers risk infection if they cannot get the protective gear.
Some popular sellers on Amazon say deliveries will be delayed for weeks.
Masks are thought to slow the spread of disease when they are worn by sick people in crowded places like emergency rooms, offices, subways and buses. By containing coughs and sneezes, masks stop virus-laden droplets from being spewed into the air and onto nearby surfaces.
Hoarding by the healthy means that hospitals, clinics and doctors’ offices could run out. Doctors and nurses treating patients for respiratory infections should wear masks and replace them often — as soon as they become soggy, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.


The C.D.C. is reaching out to manufacturers to prevent shortages, especially in hospitals, an agency official said.
Reporting was contributed by Daisuke Wakabayashi, Karen Weise and Mike Isaac.