New coronavirus spreads to all of China's provinces; 170 dead, 7,700-plus cases 
 BEIJING (Kyodo) -- China's Tibet Autonomous Region has confirmed its first case of a patient with a new pneumonia-causing coronavirus, health authorities said Thursday, meaning the infection has spread to all of the country's 31 provincial-level regions.

The death toll across China from the new virus has increased to 170, including nearly 130 in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak, while at least 7,700 cases of the infection have been identified, official media reported.

The coronavirus, known to transmit between humans, has already spread to other Asian nations such as Japan and South Korea, as well as North America, Europe, Australia and the Middle East. Finland has become the latest country to report its first confirmed case.

The new virus is believed to have begun spreading late last year in Wuhan, around 1,000 kilometers south of Beijing. The city is a major business and transit hub with a population of some 11 million.

Zhong Nanshan, head of an experts' team in China's government-run National Health Commission, was quoted Wednesday by state-run Xinhua News Agency as saying the new coronavirus had originated in bats.

The Chinese pulmonologist, who combated the 2002-2003 SARS epidemic, said the new coronavirus has the same origin as a virus found in a type of bat in 2017, the news agency reported.

In Hubei Province, whose capital city is Wuhan, the number of deaths stemming from the new virus had risen to 162 as of Thursday morning, up 37 from the previous day.

Concern is mounting that infections will expand further as hundreds of millions of Chinese are expected to return home from their weeklong Lunar New Year holiday, which has been extended to Sunday from Thursday on account of the outbreak.

Coronaviruses generally cause common cold-like symptoms affecting the nose, sinuses or upper throat, and are spread through sneezing, coughing or direct contact.

But some types lead to more serious, sometimes deadly respiratory diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome or Middle East respiratory syndrome, known as SARS and MERS, respectively.