A health-security expert says we're in an 'age of epidemics.' We can expect a future outbreak worse than the Wuhan coronavirus. 
 Chinese Premier Li Keqiang wearing a mask and protective suit speaks to medical workers as he visits the Jinyintan hospital where the patients of the new coronavirus are being treated following the outbreak, in Wuhan, Hubei province, China January 27, 2020. cnsphoto via REUTERS.

When Chinese authorities reported an outbreak of a new coronavirus in Wuhan, China, many public health experts had a similar thought: History was repeating itself.

Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), which spread in China 17 years ago, was also a coronavirus. These zoonotic diseases originate in animals before jumping to people. Experts haven't yet confirmed which species was the original host of the new coronavirus, but "there's an indication that it's a bat virus," Vincent Munster, a scientist at Rocky Mountain Laboratories, told Business Insider.

SARS also came from bats, experts say, and these two outbreaks won't be isolated incidents. More zoonotic diseases are expected to come down the pike in the years ahead.

"Infectious diseases will continue to emerge and re-emerge. I think it's part of the world we live in now," Eric Toner, a senior scientist at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, told Business Insider. "We're in an age of epidemics because of globalization, because of encroachment on wild environments."

The new coronavirus has killed more than 170 people and infected more than 7,000 since December 31.

In an op-ed for The New York Times on Monday, science writer David Quammen wrote that the wildlife trade in Asia, Africa, and the US — particularly the kind that happens at dense markets in which live and dead animals are sold in a small space — is partially responsible for the current epidemic.

In the case of Wuhan, some experts think the coronavirus jumped from bats to snakes in the wild, then from snakes to people a wet market. The suspected market has since been shuttered, and Wuhan banned the sale of live animals.

SARS and the H7N9 and H5N9 bird flus also originated in wet markets.

In addition to the wildlife trade, global population growth also increases the risk that diseases will spill over from animals to humans. As more people encroach on ecological habitats in their quest for food and resources, that creates opportunities for interspecies virus jumps: "First from animal to human, then from human to human, sometimes on a pandemic scale," Quammen wrote.

"When you're done worrying about this outbreak, worry about the next one," he added.

More than 75% of emerging diseases originate in animals. In the last century, at least 10 infectious diseases jumped from animals to people.

The 2009-2010 H1N1 pandemic — also known as swine flu — started in pigs then killed nearly 300,000 people. People have caught bird flu strains via direct contact with infected poultry in China.

The density of Wuhan and the presence of live-animal markets there put the city at especially high risk of a disease outbreak, experts say.