People are searching 'Corona beer virus' after confusing lager with coronavirus 
 More than 7,700 cases of coronavirus have been confirmed across the world – but some people are still getting the deadly disease mixed up with beer.

According to Google Trends, searches for the Mexican beer Corona Extra have stepped up 1,100% in the US since the outbreak first reached the country.

Among the most frequent searches are the phrases ‘beer virus’ and ‘corona beer virus’.

Global searches for ‘coronavirus symptoms’ also increased by 1,050% this week, while ‘what is coronavirus’ and ‘is coronavirus deadly’ also made into the top five questions asked.

There is no link between the coronavirus and Corona Extra beer whatsoever.

Initially the virus was first believed to have started at the Huanan Seafood Wholesales Market, in Wuhan, China, although authorities are still investigating its cause.

Recently certain delicacies in Asia have come under scrutiny, after scientific research indicated the virus could have been caused by eating snakes or bats.

One study of bats found that the new strain of coronavirus is 96% identical on a DNA level with a type of virus found in the animals.

However, there is no further indication that eating a bat may could cause the virus – and bat soup is not commonplace in Wuhan.

As of Thursday, 170 people have died from the coronavirus, while 7,711 people are currently infected in China.

Cases of the virus have also been reported in Thailand, Japan, France, Germany, Finland, Canada, the US and Australia.

However, no deaths have been reported outside of China.

British people trapped in Wuhan are due to be flown out of the city this week, after agreeing to spend up to two weeks in quarantine once they land in the UK.

However, those expecting to board a flight home on Thursday were told Chinese authorities had not yet granted permission for their departure.

Health Secretary Matt Hancock chaired a Cobra emergency committee on Wednesday evening, in a desperate bid to stop the virus spreading to the UK.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: ‘We are doing everything we can to get British people in Wuhan safely back to the UK.

‘A number of countries’ flights have been unable to take off as planned. We continue working urgently to organise a flight to the UK as soon as possible.

‘We remain in close contact with the Chinese authorities and conversations are ongoing at all levels.’