OPEC May Call Early Meeting as Virus Puts Oil Demand at Risk 
 (Bloomberg) -- OPEC members are considering holding an emergency meeting next month, as oil prices sink on concern the coronavirus outbreak will hit demand.

Algerian Energy Minister Mohamed Arkab said the producer group’s meeting scheduled for March is likely to be moved to February, the Algerie Presse Service reported. A decision may be taken “in the coming days,” he said.

The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is trying to meet as early as next week, a delegate from the group with knowledge of the discussion said, asking not to be identified because the matter is private.

Another delegate said the talks were at an informal stage, while several other delegates said they were unaware of any discussion to bring forward the meeting date. OPEC and its allies are set to meet March 5-6 to discuss the future of oil-production cuts that expire at the end of March.

An outbreak of the pneumonia-like illness has left 7,800 people infected and 170 dead since the first case was reported on Dec. 30 in Wuhan, the capital of China’s Hubei province. As airlines across the globe suspend flights to China, oil prices slumped, adding to the pressure on OPEC and its allies to extend or deepen the group’s oil-production cuts.

Brent crude has dropped more than 10% this month even after the U.S. killed a key Iranian general and Libya’s oil production was cut to near zero following a blockade of the nation’s ports that virtually halted exports. Saudi Arabia has said it’s “closely monitoring” the effect of the virus on the oil market.

--With assistance from Javier Blas, Lucia Kassai and Jim Silver.

To contact the reporters on this story: Grant Smith in London at gsmith52@bloomberg.net;Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net

To contact the editors responsible for this story: Nayla Razzouk at nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net, Bruce Stanley

For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com

Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source.