Danger zone: America's retirement system is breaking down 
 In a special report launching today, Eye on America: Retirement, CBS News explores the changing nature of retirement and how to prepare for the future.

Roughly half of all U.S. families have no money set aside for retirement, Federal Reserve data show. Not a cent. But even that alarming savings deficit doesn't fully capture the emerging socioeconomic crisis facing what is, after all, a rapidly graying nation. That's because even Americans who work diligently to prepare for their later years are falling behind, thwarted by a confusing, patchwork system that has placed the burden of saving for retirement squarely onto individuals. As a result, only 18 percent of U.S. workers say they are very confident of having enough money to live comfortably during their retirement years, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute (EBRI). "What has happened over the last 20 or 30 years is a transfer of risk from employers to employees," said Anthony Webb, senior research economist with Boston College's Center for Retirement Research.

But shouldn't people accept responsibility for planning their financial future? Well, yes and no. Most of us recognize the importance of living within our means, while millions of Americans already divert part of their income into an employer-sponsored 401(k), IRA and other accounts to ensure they'll have enough to live on in retirement. Yet millions more find it hard or impossible to save, largely for reasons beyond their control. They are casualties of broad economic, social and other forces, from high unemployment, stagnant income and spiraling health care costs to eroding labor protections and rising income inequality. Behind these currents, as always, are political choices we make as a nation, along with the deep-pocketed special interests that steer public policy in ways that may not align with the common good. The danger? In the years ahead, a growing segment of the U.S. population could see their living standards erode as their retirement savings -- those who have any -- run dry.

"If you don't have enough left over in your paycheck, you don't feel as if you can put something away," Hiltonsmith said.Denise Oseni, a 40-year-old mother of three from Alexandria, Va., can attest to that. A high school physical education teacher, she says she has been unable to save money. Although Oseni once had a 403(b) plan -- a tax-preferred savings account for people who work in public education -- through her school job, she was forced to tap the funds when she inherited her ex-husband's debt after getting divorced. She also suffered a serious injury at school and was forced to go on federal disability, reducing her income by two-thirds. Oseni, who hopes to return to work, says she has found it all but impossible to save while raising two young boys and helping to pay for college for her oldest son. Taking in her elderly father, who can't afford senior care, has added to the financial stress."It's hard for me even to fathom how I can put money aside," she said, adding that paying for her home and meeting other expenses has taken precedence over saving for retirement. "I'm not really able to save toward retirement. I don't want to be a burden on my kids, but I do want to be able to maintain my own household."

Meanwhile, even experts who concede 401(k) plans have serious deficiencies say they're the only game in town. And to be sure, not all plans are created equal. Brightscope, a provider of retirement plan information and ratings, notes that some companies far surpass others in their funding contributions and other benefits, such as immediate vesting. It cites law firm Sullivan & Cromwell, health care management firm North American Partners in Anesthesia and accounting giant Ernst & Young among the U.S. companies with the best 401(k) plans.Experts also say the retirement system can be improved. One idea is to roll out on a national level the kind of retirement plan that California introduced in 2012. Aimed at lower-income workers whose employers don't offer a plan, the California Secure Choice Retirement Savings Program requires employers to withhold 3 percent of an employee's pay, with participants automatically enrolled unless they opt out. Those funds are then invested under the state's pension system or by a private fund manager.

If a large segment of the population is ill-prepared for retirement, meanwhile, many people with decent jobs and income have managed to save sufficiently to live out their lives in relative comfort. It can be done (in part by applying some of the strategies that will be detailed in this CBS News Eye on America retirement series).The trouble is that subpar 401(k) returns are but one symptom of what are deeper inefficiencies in the American retirement system -- inefficiencies that big-money politics make hard to root out. Just one example: The bulk of individual tax incentives for retirement savings go to the top 20 percent of income-earners, according to the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities. That means most of the tax breaks that reward savers go to people at the top, even though it's those further down the income ladder who need the most help saving for retirement. This isn't only unfair, critics say -- it's bad for the economy. "Ultimately, there needs to be shared responsibility between employers, employees and government," Hiltonsmith said, in decrying the added risk being piled on workers. For retirees, those risks aren't a matter of arcane public-policy disputes, but of simple survival. "It's not comfortable, but I'm making it work," Galloway said of his current financial predicament. Still, he added, "If I live more than 10 years, I think I'll end up wiping out the savings." Do face masks really protect against coronavirus?