UK sending in military to rescue Brits trapped in coronavirus epicentre 
 Britain is sending the military to rescue UK citizens from the epicentre of China's coronavirus outbreak - and they will be quarantined at a base for two weeks when they arrive.

The evacuation has been delayed and anyone showing signs of infection will be left behind in Wuhan, where the crisis began late last month.

Government minister Nick Gibb told Sky News a plane due to carry British nationals from Wuhan, the capital of central Hubei province, will land at a military base in the UK.

Britain is isolating the evacuees for 14 days due to fears that some could be carrying the SARS-like virus without showing any symptoms.

Do you have a spot on the repatriation flight? Have you been affected by coronavirus? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.

The evacuation was due to begin on Thursday, but Britain was forced to delay it because it has not yet got the correct permissions from Chinese authorities for a flight to leave.

The flight likely won't take off until Friday, at the earliest.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "We are doing everything we can to get British people in Wuhan safely back to the UK.

"A number of countries' flights have been unable to take off as planned.

"We continue working urgently to organise a flight to the UK as soon as possible."

The outbreak has killed at least 170 people in China and infected more than 7,700 others, mostly in Wuhan and Hubei, but the flu-like virus has spread around the world.

We'll be bringing you the very latest updates, pictures and video on this breaking news story.

Please check back regularly for updates on this developing story here at Mirror.co.uk.

For the latest news and breaking news visit Mirror.co.uk/news.

Get all the big headlines, pictures, analysis, opinion and video on the stories that matter to you.

Follow us on Twitter@DailyMirror - the official Daily Mirror & Mirror Online Twitter account - real news in real time.

We're also on Facebook/dailymirror - your must-see news, features, videos and pictures throughout the day from the Daily Mirror, Sunday Mirror and Mirror Online.