Brits 'will be left in Wuhan' if they show any symptoms of coronavirus 
 British people trapped in Wuhan who show any signs or symptoms of coronavirus will not be allowed to fly home, a minister has said.

The government has sent military personnel to rescue British people trapped in China after they were told a flight due to bring them back to the UK today had been cancelled.

Around 200 people had been expected to board the chartered flight to Britain this morning but it is understood Chinese officials have not yet granted permission for departure.

This morning, schools minister Nick Gibb told Sky News that if anyone appears to be infected with the virus, they won’t be able to leave.

He said: ‘We want British nationals home but we have to make sure we are co-operating internationally with preventing the spread of this virus.

‘The Chinese authorities are taking this issue very seriously and my understanding is that if people are infected then they won’t be able to leave Wuhan.’

He added that once British nationals do arrive in the UK they will be put into quarantine.

Mr Gibb said: ‘They will be in an NHS facility for 14 days to ensure they don’t show signs and symptoms of this virus.’

People registered to be on the flight out of Wuhan will be sent an email within a few hours to explain where and when it will leave, according to the British Embassy in Beijing.

This will be followed up by a text message and phone call with exact details of the flight. It is now hoped it could take place tonight – early Friday morning in China.

It is not yet clear exactly where the plane will land in the UK, but Mr Gibb said it is his understanding that it will fly into a military base.

It is also understood that the plane will be a commercially chartered flight but manned by RAF crew, with medics on board.

Fears are growing over the human-to-human spread of coronavirus as new cases emerge among people who have not been to China.

Cases have been confirmed in Japan, Germany and Vietnam in people who had caught the virus from others who had travelled from Wuhan.

The new virus has now killed 170 people and infected 7,711 others in China, the country’s National Health Commission said.

Scientists say there are still many questions to be answered about coronavirus, including how easily it spreads and how severe it is.

The World Health Organisation warned on Wednesday that ‘the whole world’ needs to be prepared to cope with the fatal virus.

It also said China was taking ‘extraordinary measures in the face of an extraordinary challenge’ posed by the outbreak.