The Latest: Korean Air says it will cut some China flights 
 Passengers arrive at Heathrow Airport in London after the last British Airways flight from China touched down in the UK following an announcement that the airline was suspending all flights to and from mainland China with immediate effect amid the escalating coronavirus crisis, Wednesday Jan. 29, 2020. Many governments have warned against unnecessary travel to China, as efforts to contain a new and deadly coronavirus virus intensify. (Steve Parsons/PA via AP)

BEIJING (AP) — The Latest on the outbreak of a new virus from China:

Korean Air says it will cut or suspend some of its flights to mainland China starting on Sunday as demands decrease amid a growing coronavirus crisis.

South Korea’s largest airline on Thursday said it will suspend flights from Incheon International Airport to Huangshan, Zhangjiajie, Changsha and Kunming as well as flights from Busan to Beijing and Nanjing and from Jeju to Beijing. The company will reduce the number of flights from Incheon to Beijing, Qingdao and Shenyang and from Busan to Qingdao and Shanghai.

Korean Air had operated four flights a week to the Chinese city of Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak, before suspending them on Jan. 23. The company says flights to Wuhan will continue to be grounded at least until March 27.

On Wednesday, Asiana Airlines, South Korea’s second-largest carrier, said it will suspend flights to the Chinese cities of Guilin, Changsha and Haikou starting next month.

The Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is urging "closer coordination" with Chinese authorities to help identify people traveling from China to African nations who might have the new virus.

The statement on Wednesday came as the World Health Organization expressed concerns about "weaknesses" in disease surveillance and control in parts of Africa.

The Africa CDC acknowledged the problem earlier this week, saying it's possible there are already cases on the continent.

No cases in Africa have been confirmed, but a growing number of suspected cases in several countries has been reported.

South Korean police say protesters have thrown plastic water bottles and paper cups at the country's vice health minister to oppose plans to quarantine Wuhan evacuees in their neighborhood.

The rally took place Wednesday in the southern town of Jincheon, where residents protested the government plan to isolate in their neighborhood some of the South Koreans who will be evacuated from the Chinese city at the center of a new virus.

Vice Health Minister Kim Gang-lip visited the area to explain the plan. Police said Thursday it wasn’t clear if Kim was hit by objects thrown at him.

Photos showed some protesters grabbing Kim’s arms while his upper jacket was partially ripped.

Officials say Kim was apparently unhurt and attended a parliamentary committee meeting on Thursday.

A Japanese official says 13 of 210 evacuees who returned from the virus-hit Chinese city of Wuhan to Tokyo had cough, fever or other health issues and are expected to be sent to designated hospitals.

Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga says Japan is negotiating to evacuate some 300 more citizens and their families from Wuhan as early as Thursday.

Shigeru Omi, the former regional director for the World Health Organization who now heads Japan Community Health Care Organization, said that two evacuees who tested positive for the virus without showing any symptoms could have spread the disease further. He urged Japanese health authorities to step up surveillance measures based on that assumption.

Japan has confirmed 11 cases, including two suspected human-to-human transmissions in people who had not visited China.

New Zealand's government is chartering a plane from national carrier Air New Zealand to get people home from Wuhan.

Foreign Minister Winston Peters says the plane will take up to 300 passengers. He says officials are working through operational requirements with authorities from both countries and that the flight is still subject to approval from China.

He says any spare seats would be offered to Australian or Pacific island citizens. New Zealand officials are preparing to isolate incoming passengers for up to two weeks.

Singapore meanwhile says it flew back 92 of its citizens from Wuhan on Thursday.