Coronavirus in India: Kerala student studying in China's Wuhan University first confirmed case from India 
 India has reported its first confirmed case of a novel coronavirus in Kerala, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare confirmed. The patient is a student from Kerala, who had returned from Wuhan and was studying at Wuhan University in China. Wuhan is the epicentre of the virus and it spread from a wet market that was selling illegal wildlife, which has now been shut down.

The patient is reported to be in a stable condition, isolated and is being monitored closely.

"One positive case of Novel Coronavirus patient, of a student studying in Wuhan University, has been reported in Kerala," the Health Minister was quoted as said by NDTV.

Economic Times has reported that the Kerala health minister has called an emergency meeting, with top health officials.

In Kerala, one person each from Thrissur, Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta and Malappuram and three from Ernakulam district have been kept in isolation wards of various health centres, PTI reported. As a precautionary measure, health authorities in India have already placed many people under medical watch. Various airports in the country have started screening passengers arriving from China for symptoms of coronavirus infection.

According to the Kerala Health Ministry, 800 people have been kept under observation in the state. While most of them are quarantined at home, seven people were kept under observation in isolation wards at different hospitals, PTI reported.

A novel coronavirus (CoV), or a new coronavirus, is one that hasn't been previously identified. The 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV, in short) is a respiratory virus that was first discovered in Wuhan, a city in China's Hubei Province in December 2019. It is a large family of viruses of which only six can infect humans. The 2019-nCoV is one of them, and so are the SARS and MERS viruses. While there is no confirmation on the origin of the virus, it is suspect that the first human victim(s) was infected by a snake, at the Wuhan market.

The virus, till date, has claimed the lives of around 170 people in China and around 7,711 people are infected. It has spread to many Asian countries – Hong Kong, Thailand, Macau, Singapore, Taiwan, Japan, Malaysia, South Korea, Vietnam and Cambodia as well as France, Australia, US, Canada, Germany, Ivory Coast, Nepal and Sri Lanka. However, there have been no fatalities in any of these countries.

Find latest and upcoming tech gadgets online on Tech2 Gadgets. Get technology news, gadgets reviews & ratings. Popular gadgets including laptop, tablet and mobile specifications, features, prices, comparison.