Ed Davey shut down by Charlie Stayt over Johnson ‘failings’: ‘Do you not accept that?' 
 Charlie Stayt and Ed Davey spoke about everything from HS2 to Brexit but the two clashed when talking about the UK’s response to the coronavirus and getting British citizens home. However, Stayt was forced to shut Davey down after failing to accept that the government's response was all down to bureaucracy.

Stayt began the conversation: “Some people listening to you might think that you’ve not entirely let the Brexit vote go?”
Davey explained: “Well I’m not going to let go of my pro-European principles and values and beliefs.
“I was a pro-European yesterday, I am a pro-European today and tomorrow so with the Liberal Democrats I believe that Britain's future will inevitably be intertwined with Europe. Our history was and our future will be.
“The question is, how do we make that relationship as good as possible for mutual benefit?”
READ MORE: Mike Bushell: BBC Breakfast star’s wife reacts after he 'strips off'

He continued: “I would rather have stayed in the EU, that’s no secret but as we leave on Friday and I’ll be sad at that prospect, as we leave we need to retain all the great things from Europe and keep that close relationship.”
Stayt chipped in: “I want to ask about coronavirus, our lead story for the last few days what do you make of the government's response so far? 
“Because of course the flight this morning that was meant to take off has been delayed we have been told for procedural reasons. 
“What do you think of the government's response?”
 


Davey explained: “I think it's been slow. You’ve seen other countries, Japan for example really got their act together but I am afraid Boris Johnson is getting a bit of a track record for being lethargic and slow off the cuff.
He continued: “We saw that with Iran now we are seeing it with this virus crisis and you know we’ve still got British citizens there.
“If he’d got his act together they may well all be back by now so I think the government should have called a COBRA meeting right at the start because of how difficult it is.
“When I was on national security and you looked at the threats to British people, a pandemic virus was always right at the top.
DON'T MISS...
BBC Breakfast: Naga Munchetty cuts off travel boss in heated exchange [SHOCK]
BBC News: Carol Kirkwood slams Charlie and Naga over demand [REVEALED]
‘Brexit was delayed while you led it’ Naga Munchetty ignores [TV ROW]

“This shouldn’t be a surprise and the planning in here, the government failed and Boris Johnson failed to fire the button to make sure we got our act together quickly.”
Stayt was forced to step in: “But if it's true what the foreign office is saying, that this is bureaucracy, this is a last-minute complication to do with who can be on the plane and issues around citizenship, do you not accept that?”
Davey bit back: “My point is if we had moved quicker then we wouldn’t be facing the bureaucracy.
“Other countries got their nationals out faster and because the spread was quicker and because Boris Johnson was so late, that means we have been caught up in the bureaucracy because he failed to act quickly. 
“We then got caught up and our British citizens aren’t coming home.”

Stayt continued: “Big decision today being made about infrastructure, HS2, we understand that this goes into a meeting today what is the Liberal Democrat position?”
Davey explained: “We voted for HS2, for environmental reasons and making sure we have the best possible rail network and the reason I voted for it originally still stands.
“I want to reduce the amount of flights we have domestically, and you can only do that if you have high-speed links. 
“Other countries have had these for years, we are behind the scale.”
BBC Breakfast continues on BBC One tomorrow at 6am.