Coronavirus: Trapped Brits make heart-wrenching evacuation plea – ‘Don’t forget about us’ 
 A plane is scheduled to evacuate Britons from Wuhan, where the coronavirus first originated, however many families have been told only certain members can fly because of government rules. Jeff Siddle, from Prudhoe, Northumberland was offered a flight to the UK from Wuhan, but was told his Chinese wife, Sindy, must stay behind as she is a Chinese national. Mr Siddle is now forced to decide whether to fly to the UK with the couple’s nine-year-old daughter and leave his wife behind or keep the family united.

He said: “My wife is distraught.
“The Chinese authorities are not allowing any Chinese residents to leave.”
Mrs Siddle has a Chinese passport but has held a visa for permanent UK residency since 2008.
However, the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office and the Chinese government have enforced strict rules which mean only British nationals can board the evacuation plane.

  
Brits have been left stranded in Wuhan after they are forced to make heart-wrenching family choices (Image: Getty)
  
Travel out of Wuhan has been all but impossible (Image: Getty)
Mr Siddle and his family travelled to Wuhan for the Chinese New Year celebrations and to spend time with relatives.
The family had planned to return to the UK on February 1, only to find their flight had been cancelled due to the virus outbreak.
Speaking to the Today programme on BBC Radio 4, Mr Siddle added: “My wife’s a Chinese citizen although she’s got a permanent residency visa for the UK as a spouse.
“I had to make a decision where it’s either my nine-year-old daughter, who’s got a British passport, and myself to leave - and leave my wife here in China, or the three of us stay.
“We’d have to have a nine-year-old child separated from her mother. Who knows how long that could be for?
READ MORE: Coronavirus cure? HIV drugs could be a 'light in the tunnel' for China

  
The coronavirus originated in Wuhan (Image: Getty)
“My daughter’s obviously been in floods of tears. She’s absolutely devastated.”
Mr Siddle’s comments come as a flight to bring approximately 200 British nationals back from Wuhan to the UK has now been cancelled.
The British Foreign Office has said they are working urgently to gain the necessary permission from Chinese officials to allow the plane to take off.
And other families have also found themselves in a similar predicament to Mr Siddle.
DON'T MISS:
Coronavirus LIVE tracker: Live map allows you to TRACK spread of virus [LIVE]
WATCH: Coronavirus patients treated next to DEAD bodies in Wuhan [VIDEO]
Coronavirus panic: Poll reveals people fear deadly outbreak [POLL]

  
Families may have to be separated so some Brits can fly home (Image: Getty)
  
Hospitals are being forced to cope with the increasing demand (Image: Getty)
Adam Bridgeman, from London, lives in Wuhan with his Chinese wife and their four-week-old baby.
He was booked onto the flight, but evacuation rules mean he may be forced to leave his wife and child behind.
Speaking on Good Morning Britain, Mr Bridgeman said: “They said my wife couldn’t board the plane because she’s a Chinese national…and they were unable to confirm whether or not my son could board…
“…Separating a mother from her newborn baby is not something we were really willing to do, but on the other hand it’s not very safe here, he might need medical attention, vaccinations and so on. But seeing a doctor here is a little bit dangerous, so there’s no good option.”
Mr Bridgeman spoke of how the Chinese government have taken a hard line on the fact that Chinese nationals cannot be evacuated.
He added: “I’m not leaving alone. I won’t leave alone…

  
The symptoms of coronavirus (Image: Daily Express)
“As to whether I’ll leave my wife here, we’re not decided, but it’s been a really difficult decision… I don’t want to break our family apart, the baby is too young. So we will probably stay here, together, if we can’t go.”
British PE teacher, Kharn Lambert, whose elderly grandmother had come to visit him in Wuhan told the BBC’s Victoria Derbyshire programme he had sacrificed his place on the evacuation plane over the “potential to infect other people on the way home”.
His grandmother, who suffers from a serious lung condition and is running out of medicine, will fly on the plane as Mr Lambert states it is better for her “to be at home, than at risk”.
And young mum Natalie Francis, who is currently working as an English teacher in Wuhan, has been forbidden to bring her son, Jamie, home as he has a Chinese passport, despite being a British citizen.
Posting on Facebook, Ms Francis said: “I can go with no problem, my son, however, can’t go as they say ‘nothing can be done’…

  
Wuhan has been placed on lockdown as countries attempt to retrieve their citizens (Image: Getty)
  “He suffered from pneumonia last year and the only advice they can give is for me to leave him behind? Once again, thank you for nothing FO and Bejing embassy.”
Ms Francis, originally from York, spoke more of the “nightmare” situation.
Speaking to the BBC, she added: “I don’t know who can sort this out, [but] please don’t forget us.”
A Foreign and Commonwealth Office spokesperson said: “The safety of British nationals is our top priority and we have been in close contact with British nationals and their family members who might need help.
“Our priority is to keep British nationals and their family members together and we have urgently raised this with the Chinese authorities.”