XE Market Analysis: Europe - Jan 30, 2020 
 Risk-of positioning has driven the yen and Swiss franc higher while weighing on the dollar bloc and many developing-world currencies. Reported cases of the coronavirus outbreak continues to rise, and the economic consequences of the measures being taken to limit the contagion (extended Chinese holiday, drastic cuts in travel, among others), have dominated in market narratives so far today. Mainland Chinese markets remained closed, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng equity index tumbled 2.3%, and Japan's Nikkei by 1.7%. Taiwan's TWII equity index, reopening for the first time since last week, plummeted 5.8%. EuroSTOXX and S&P 500 equity index futures are showing losses of around 0.8%. In the forex realm, USD-JPY printed a two-day low at 108.80, extending declines from the peak seen yesterday at 109.26 while swinging Monday's three-week low at 108.73 back into scope. EUR-JPY made a two-month low, at 119.79. The biggest movers out of the main dollar pairings and associated cross rates have been, not surprisingly, AUD-JPY and NZD-JPY, which are down by nearly 0.5%. AUD-JPY hit a three-and-a-half-month low at 73.18. AUD-USD also printed a three-and-a-half-month low. Losses in the Aussie have come despite waning expectations for the RBA to cut rates at its February-4th policy meeting, following perkier than expected Q4 CPI and December employment data (released over the last week). Australian cash rate futures are now implying just a 16% probability for a 25 bp rate cut next week, down from 58% odds just over a week ago. Elsewhere, both EUR-USD and Cable remained within their respective Wednesday ranges. EUR-CHF posted a two-day low at 1.0695, returning focus on Tuesday's 3-month low at 1.0665. USD-CAD printed a fresh seven-week high, at 1.3224, which has been concurrent with a near 2% loss in oil prices today.



[EUR, USD]

EUR-USD has so far remained within its Wednesday range, holding above the two-month low that was seen at 1.0992. The low is the product of a moderate downtrend that's been unfolding over the last couple of weeks, from levels above 1.1150. Some economic data disappointments out of the Eurozone, coupled with some dovish signalling by ECB policymakers, have been keeping the euro no a downward bias, while dollar has been outperforming the common currency in the context of rising risk aversion in global markets. The dollar is currently registering as the strongest of the main currencies on the year-to-date, reflecting international demand for Treasuries (the dollar is up by 4.2% versus the Aussie dollar, which is the weakest, and is showing fractional 0.2% gain on the yen, which is the second strongest). Bigger picture, EUR-USD has been trending lower since early 2018, dropping from levels near 1.2500 and posting a 32-month low at 1.0879 in early October, the current nadir of the trend. Momentum has faded, however, with the Fed having backed out of its tightening phase after hiking rates three times last year. The central bank has since been engaged in capping the repo rate, which has seen its balance swell by some 11% since last September, and Fed funds futures are discounting about 83% odds for a 25 bp easing at the last FOMC meeting of the year in December.



[USD, JPY]

The yen has turned higher as risk-off positioning richened the currency's safe-haven premium. Reported cases of the coronavirus outbreak continues to rise, and the economic consequences of the measures being taken to limit the contagion (extended Chinese holiday, drastic cuts in travel, among others), have dominated in market narratives so far today.Global stock markets have come back under pressure, while USD-JPY printed a two-day low at 108.80, extending declines from the peak seen yesterday at 109.26, swinging Monday's three-week low at 108.73 back into scope. EUR-JPY made a two-month low, at 119.79. The biggest movers out of the main dollar pairings and associated cross rates have been, not surprisingly, AUD-JPY and NZD-JPY, which are down by nearly 0.5%. AUD-JPY hit a three-and-a-half-month low at 73.18. More of the same looks likely.



[GBP, USD]

Sterling edged out fresh lows in early London trading as markets jig positions into today's BoE monetary policy review. Cable has posted a two-day low at 1.2977, while the UK currency has seen an eight-day low versus the euro. UK money market futures are discounting about 50-50 odds for the BoE to cut the repo rate by 25 bp. We don't expect the BoE to cut, and therefore anticipate some scope for a rebound in the pound. Our view is that the majority of the nine member Monetary Policy Committee will want to refrain from easing amid signs of a post-election rebound in economic activity, as evidenced by a much stronger than expected rebound in preliminary PMI and CBI industrial trends January survey data. We still expect dissension in the MPC ranks, with Saunders and Haskell seen repeating their call (for what will be a third successive meeting) for a 25 bp cut in the repo rate, to 0.50%, and possibly joined by their dovish MPC colleague Vlieghe. A vote for unchanged policy would leave the repo rate at 0.75%. Brexit will happen in the legal sense at midnight on Friday, though not a lot will change in practical terms as the UK will remain in the single market and customs union through to the end of 2020. Prime Minister Johnson will be visiting President Trump next week to start negotiations on a post-Brexit trade deal. There may be some tensions following the decision by the UK to allow China's Huawei to participate in building 5G infrastructure, although Huawei's role will be limited and won't be involved in security-sensitive areas.



[USD, CHF]

EUR-CHF posted a two-day low at 1.0695, returning focus on Tuesday's 3-month low at 1.0665. Markets are monitoring are continuing to monitor the coronavirus outbreak closely, with the next two weeks likely to be telling with regard to how bad things may or may not get. The franc had already rallied strongly earlier in the month following the surprising decision by the U.S. to add Switzerland to its list of currency manipulators earlier in the week. The U.S. move seems a bit rich given the franc is a demonstrably chronically-overvalued currency in purchasing parity terms (as illustrated by the Economist's Big Mac index), though the Trump administration argues that Switzerland needs a more expansive fiscal policy.



[USD, CAD]

USD-CAD printed a fresh seven-week high, at 1.3224, which has been concurrent with a near 2% loss in oil prices today. Canada's economic data slate this week is highlighted by November GDP (Friday), expected to reveal a flat reading (0.0%) after the -0.1% drop in October. The economy slowed in Q4, and an as-expected lack of growth in November would be consistent with that view, as expressed by the BoC last week. The December IPPI report (Friday) and November average weekly earnings (Thursday) round out a lean calendar. Deputy Governor Beaudry speaks (Thursday) on Monetary Policy and Financial vulnerabilities. Notably, elevated household debt levels are a key argument against additional rate cuts this year. In Q&A with the press last week, Governor Poloz said a rate cut was not warranted "at this time."