Three Japanese evacuees from Wuhan test positive for virus, 2 had no symptoms 
 TOKYO (Reuters) - Two of three Japanese people evacuated from China and found to be infected with a new coronavirus had not shown symptoms, the health ministry said on Thursday, adding to worry about the fast-spreading virus and its economic fallout. 
An ambulance carrying a Japanese national who evacuated from Wuhan by a chartered plane, arrives at a hospital in Tokyo, Japan in this photo taken by Kyodo January 30, 2020. Mandatory credit Kyodo/via REUTERS


The three cases were among 206 Japanese people who were evacuated to Tokyo on Wednesday from the Chinese city of Wuhan, the epicentre of the epidemic that has killed 170 people in China and infected nearly 8,000. 
While the vast majority of cases have been in China, more than 100 cases have also appeared in about 15 other countries, with Japan’s three new cases taking its tally to 11. 
The two people who were confirmed as infected but had not shown symptoms were the first such cases in Japan, though suspicion has been rising that people who have the virus but no symptoms can infect others. 
That would make the virus much more difficult to control. 
Japan on Tuesday classified the virus a “designated infectious disease”, which would allow compulsory hospitalisation and the use of public funds for treatment. 
But the designation - which takes effect on Feb. 7 after ordinances are issued - does not apply to people without symptoms. 
Asked about concern over transmission of the virus from people who have not shown symptoms, a health ministry official said it was not clear whether that had happened. 
Shigeru Omi, head of the Japan Community Health Care Organisation, told a briefing that there were reports of such transmissions in China. 
Chinese National Health Commission Minister Ma Xiaowei said this week the virus was infectious during incubation, which can range from one to 14 days.  
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, inaugurating a task force to deal with the virus, said the government would take all steps to prevent its spread, including tracking and checking people who had been in Wuhan. 
Among Japan’s 11 cases is a tour bus driver who was infected after coming into contact with Chinese visitors. 
REFUSING TESTING 
Of the 206 people evacuated on Wednesday, 12 were hospitalised because they had symptoms such as fever and coughing. Two refused to be taken to the hospital for checks but were escorted home.  
The remaining 201 all tested negative, the ministry official said. 
Abe told parliament it was regrettable that the two had declined to be tested but said there were limits to what the government could do legally. 
“There are civil rights aspects and there are limits to what we can do,” he said. 
But that stance drew fire from the public. 
“Refusing a test is just ‘yes, OK?’ That’s just stupid,” said Twitter user “Ritsu”.  
Some people also called for a ban on visitors from China. 
“It’s not right to put priority on making money from tourists,” said another Twitter user identified as “GooDondon”. 
Abe said the government was watching out for any economic impact of the virus on tourism and other areas and would do everything to protect people’s lives and health. 
Bank of Japan Deputy Governor Masayoshi Amamiya speaking to investors, said the impact of the virus would depended on its spread but China’s global presence was greater than when Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which also originated in China, killed nearly 800 people globally in 2002 and 2003. 
ANA Holdings , Japan’s biggest carrier, said its bookings for flights from China in February fell by half, while those for flights to China plunged 60%.  
“The concern is of the impact that the situation could have on China’s economy and the knock on that will have on things like air cargo,” ANA Executive Vice President Ichiro Fukuzawa told a news conference after the release of quarterly earnings. 
Moody’s rating service said the economic risk to China’s neighbours was likely to be greater than from SARS. 
“The timing is particularly bad for Japan as it seeks to rebound from the dip in consumption, and presumably real GDP growth, in the last quarter of 2019 following a sales tax hike,” Moody’s said. 
A second charter flight carrying 210 Japanese nationals arrived in Tokyo on Thursday. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said 13 of them felt unwell.  
His deputy, Akihiro Nishimura, told reporters later that the government was urging all evacuees to be tested. 
(This story has been refiled to correct to insert dropped names, paragraphs 22, 24). 
Reporting by Chang-Ran Kim, Ami Miyazaki and Kiyoshi Takenaka, Ju-min Park, Naomi Tajitsu, Tim Kelly and Elaine Lies; Writing by Linda Sieg; Editing by Sam Holmes, Robert Birsel