Dad doesn't know if he can take newborn son out of coronavirus ground zero 
 A British dad trapped at the epicentre of the coronavirus crisis says he may not be able to bring his unvaccinated newborn back to the UK.

Adam Bridgeman was hoping his whole family could leave China on a chartered flight back to the UK today, as the death toll hits 170 and 7,711 cases are confirmed

However he, along with about 200 other trapped British people, has been told the evacuation has been delayed as Chinese officials have reportedly not yet granted permission for departure yet.

Amid hope the flight will be rescheduled for Friday, Adam is still unsure whether he will be on it, given that his wife is a Chinese national and has been told she cannot travel home with her family.

He claims it also remains uncertain whether his newborn child – who is half Chinese and half British – can board the flight as well, as only British passport holders who do not also hold Chinese nationality are currently being allowed to leave.

The British embassy in Beijing say they are urging the Chinese to let dependents of British nationals and British-Chinese dual nationals be evacuated too.

Adam says his four-week-old hasn’t been able to have some of his vaccinations as his family is too terrified of visiting hospitals in Wuhan, which are packed full of thousands of sick patients.

If his son is allowed on the flight, he could be forced to choose between abandoning his wife and taking his newborn back to the safety of England, or keeping the whole family at the centre of the outbreak.

Adam told Good Morning Britain he is still undecided on the issue, but doesn’t want to ‘break our family apart’.

He said: ‘We weren’t sure we were going to board the plane anyway because only I was confirmed to be able to. They said my wife couldn’t board the plane because she’s a Chinese national.

‘That wasn’t the decision of the British government. They were unable to confirm whether or not my son could board.

‘We were still undecided, we were thinking maybe I could go with my son and leave my wife here. But separating a mother from her newborn baby, that’s not something we’re really willing to do.’

‘On the other hand, it’s not really safe here, he might need medical attention. He’s a newborn baby, he needs vaccinations and so on. But going to the hospital or seeing a doctor here is difficult.’

The new dad added that he had heard rumours the evacuation had been re-planned for Friday, but information is sparse and ‘nothing specific’ has been said.

But despite the ‘tense situation’, the family are determined to stay ‘positive’.

He said: ‘I’m not frightened, I’m staying positive and hoping it blows over. I’m mostly concerned about our baby.

‘He needs medical attention – vaccinations, check-ups – that is the main concern. I don’t want to take him outside.’

He added that people in China were hopeful, saying: ‘Moral is good. I’ve heard people chanting together out the window, trying to encourage each other to stay positive.

‘I think the Chinese government has done quite a good job. They’ve been open about the situation and have reacted quickly when you compare it with the SARS outbreak.

‘We’ve received text messages from them telling us to keep clean, wash our hands and don’t visit friends.’

The British government will negotiate today with Chinese authorities over a flight to evacuate British nationals from Wuhan.

Nick Gibb, the School Standards Minister, told Sky News: ‘There are some difficult issues that are being negotiated at very senior levels between the British Government and the Chinese Government.

‘Our priority is to ensure the safety and welfare of British nationals in Wuhan and ensure they do return to the UK as soon as possible.’

Mr Gibb said the plan was for them to be taken to an ‘NHS facility’ on their return, where they would be kept for 14 days to make sure that they do not have symptoms of the virus.

He said: ‘It (the flight) is certainly coming to a military base in the UK and then the British nationals will go to the NHS facility for 14 days of quarantine.’