6-year-old goes viral for his 'brutally honest' Shirley Temple critiques 
 Fox News Flash top headlines for Jan. 29 are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.




This 6-year-old food and beverage critic reviews just one drink: Shirley Temples.
Leo Kelly is only in first grade, but he’s already a connoisseur of the nonalcoholic cocktail, posting video reviews of his grenadine-filled exploits to his Instagram account @theshirleytempleking.
“This is the first time I’ve ever had a Shirley Temple with a cherry outside, not inside — but let’s try it out,” says the pint-sized influencer in one video, before taking a sip. He awards it a 7.8 on a 10-point scale.
The pint-sized critic tells The Post his inspiration for the account began when his Fairfield County, Connecticut-based family was on vacation in Rhode Island in August. Leo asked if he could have one.
SOME PEOPLE THINK CORONAVIRUS, CORONA BEER ARE RELATED, INTERNET SEARCH QUERIES SUGGESTS
“Then I drank it, and I was like, mmm, this is really good,” he says. He asked his dad if he could make an Instagram to review them. “He said, ‘yeah sure’ and I said I think ‘Shirley Temple King’ is a good name.”
Little Leo’s 300-some followers jumped Monday night to his current 31,400-plus fans as of Tuesday afternoon, after a tweet about his “brutally honest reviews,” went viral on Twitter.
The follower increase, Leo says, has left him “really mind blown.”
His family is also surprised.
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER
“I know the entertainment space really well, but I didn’t think it would happen to my son,” Leo’s dad, Tom Kelly, tells The Post of the account’s sudden virality.
“I think I drank one too many Shirley Temples when I was pregnant with him,” his mom, Lisa Kelly, adds. “He’s been ordering them since he could talk.”
Now, mom and dad serve as videographers as he drinks and rates the Temples on a 10-point scale — although Leo’s yet to find a Temple deserving of a 10.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
“I only go up to 9 and a half,” he says. He maintains hope that he’ll one day find that perfect Shirley, though.
“I think it’s out there,” he says, adding that it’ll have “cherries on the outside and the cherries on the inside.”
Also, it’ll be served to him with an extra-long straw in a glass cup, as those are “better for the environment,” than plastic ones. And, it’ll have a little American flag. “Those are super duper rare,” he says.
FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS
His quest for the perfect Shirley has driven him to make his own — usually consisting of a whole can of ginger ale, poured over three or four cups of ice with three cherries, and a straw.
Read the full article on The New York Post.