Coronavirus: Pish-posh, experts say to AYUSH homeopathy push as epidemic reaches India 
 The government is drawing flak for pushing homeopathy as a possible preventive treatment option for coronavirus infections -- which have killed 170 people in China -- and says its advisory was only a preventive measure. India reported its first confirmed infection on Thursday.

Although popular, homeopathy is based on ideas that fly in the face of scientific wisdom, such as its "minimum dose" assumption that diluting a medicine's active ingredient increases its efficiency, or its "water memory" hypothesis. Benefits, if any, are attributed to a placebo effect, and there is evidence that homeopathic treatment can be dangerous.

But India's Ministry of AYUSH, set up in November 2014 and given a 15 per cent funding hike last year, claims homeopathy is a "a time tested therapy". AYUSH is an acronym for Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, Sowa Rigpa and Homoeopathy.

On January 29, 2020, the Ministry of AYUSH published an advisory in five languages prescribing coronavirus prevention and symptom management methods based on ayurveda, homeopathy and unani.

The Indian Medical Association considers practitioners of ayurveda, unani and homeopathy who are not licensed to practice modern medicine to be quacks.

The government advisory drew widespread criticism on social media, including from experts (see below photo).

There's no evidence that homeopathy can cure viral infections or that the unani drugs prescribed by the government can reduce virulence, said Sumaiya Shaikh, an Australian neuroscientist and science fact-checker with AltNews.

When one Twitter user tried to call her out, she hit back with this.

Oomen C Kurien, head of the Observer Reserch Foundation's Health Initiative, said, "The number of Indian lives saved by homeopathy from the coronavirus will be exactly the same as lives saved by homeopathy from HIV."

Later on January 29, the Ministry of AYUSH said on Twitter that its advisory was issued "as a preventive measure" and not as "treatment advice" for coronavirus infections.

Here is a complete visual guide to the new strain of coronavirus, and important information for Indian citizens.