Experts say WHO should declare coronavirus outbreak a global emergency 
 Public health experts say the WHO needs to declare the coronavirus outbreak in the Chinese city of Wuhan a global emergency, as Beijing itself locks down cities containing more than 50 million people in the world’s biggest ever national response to an infectious disease crisis.
The calls come as the World Health Organisation is set to reconvene its emergency committee in Geneva later on Thursday – the third time in a week – to assess whether the new virus spreading from China now constitutes a “public health emergency of international concern”, or PHEIC.
The pneumonia-like illness has killed 170 people and sickened more than 7,000 in China so far, with dozens more cases confirmed elsewhere, including in the United States, Japan, Thailand and Germany.
The 16 independent experts on the WHO’s emergency committee will advise director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on the decision and give recommendations for managing the outbreak.
Tedros met Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing earlier in the week to discuss the situation.
The WHO twice last week decided to hold off from declaring a public health emergency, saying it was “too soon”, and raising concern among experts that the virus could get beyond control if swift action was not taken.

Hitoshi Oshitani, a former regional adviser on communicable disease surveillance and response at the WHO’s Western Pacific office, said there was “an imminent risk” of a global outbreak.
“I think the WHO should have declared a public health emergency of international concern earlier. They are supposed to declare PHEIC based on a risk of international spread. There was already significant risk of international spread one week ago,” said Oshitani, who is now with the Department of Virology at the Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine in Japan.
Oshitani said it was more difficult to control the new coronavirus than it was Sars during the 2002-03 outbreak, because patients were likely to be contagious even before they had symptoms – meaning the measures currently being taken might not be enough to stop it from spreading.
“For Sars, patients were infectious only when they developed very severe illness. But for this virus, patients are likely to be infectious even during the incubation period. If so, rapid isolation is not enough to contain the virus,” he said.
Severe acute respiratory syndrome, which is also a coronavirus, killed 813 people and sickened more than 8,000 worldwide, according to the WHO.
But Oshitani said he did not believe the response by Chinese authorities had been inadequate.
“I believe that they had Sars-based responses, which is not adequate for this virus,” he said. “Probably when they realised the difference, there were already too many cases that originated from mild or asymptomatic cases.”


A new study by Chinese scientists has suggested the period between exposure to the coronavirus and symptoms could be as long as 5.2 days, and that it varied among patients.
The team studied the first 425 people infected with the new coronavirus, and their findings supported a 14-day observation period for people who might have been exposed to it, according to the research published in the New England Journal of Medicine on Wednesday.
China’s National Health Commission on Sunday said the virus was contagious even in its incubation period, which lasted up to 14 days.
Amesh Adalja, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Centre for Health Security, said other countries needed to “scale up” their disease prevention efforts, and a WHO declaration could help to tackle the epidemic.
“At this point, a de facto emergency exists, however the declaration may mobilise more resources to combat the outbreak,” he said.


Five global public health emergencies have been previously declared by the WHO. It has been criticised in the past for responding too slowly to other crises, including last year over the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo, which it eventually declared an international public health emergency.
According to the WHO, a PHEIC is declared when a “serious, unusual or unexpected” health crisis “poses a public health risk to other countries through international spread and that potentially requires a coordinated international response”.
As many as 5 million people may have left the outbreak epicentre of Wuhan before it was placed under lockdown last week, local officials said. While that seems a huge number for a city of 11 million, it was consistent for the Lunar New Year period when hundreds of millions of Chinese travel back to hometowns for the holiday. Other cities in Hubei were also locked down, and the province has a population of about 60 million.
Declaring an international emergency would expand the WHO’s authority to coordinate a global response, including issuing recommendations on whether countries should impose trade and travel restrictions, which could slow global trade and economic development.
Singapore, US and Japan carry out evacuations as other countries wait
Several countries and territories have already restricted travel from mainland China, including Hong Kong, Taiwan and Malaysia. Airlines based in North America, Europe and Asia have also cancelled flights to China. British Airways, United Airlines, American Airlines, Air Asia, Cathay Pacific, Air India and Lufthansa have all announced plans to cut the number of flights to China or stop flying to the country entirely.


Mark Eccleston-Turner, an international law expert with Keele University in Britain, said the legal criteria for declaring a global emergency had already been met at the time of the last emergency committee meeting.
“The reasons for this not being declared a PHEIC last week are unclear,” Eccleston-Turner said.
He said making the declaration could prevent unnecessary regressive measures.
“Typically during novel outbreaks we see countries taking measures such as closing their borders with impacted countries – these typically do not work from a public health perspective, they do not have a meaningful impact on the response, they serve only to stoke fear and stigma,” he said.
“If a PHEIC were declared, the director general could make formal recommendations to countries that such restrictive, regressive measures are not necessary ... and only serve to undermine the International Health Regulations, and be counterproductive to the global response.”


Lawrence Gostin, a professor of public health law at Georgetown University in Washington, said it was reasonable for the WHO to wait for “more definitive information” before making the declaration.
“Nevertheless, all the criteria in the International Health Regulations have been met, including the discovery of a novel virus, rising cases with serious public health ramifications, international spread, and impacts on travel and trade,” Gostin said.
He called for China to step up international cooperation to contain the spread of the virus.
“The 2019-nCoV outbreak is far from under control. China should invite the WHO’s Health Emergencies Programme to partner with the Ministry of Health on the ground,” Gostin said.
“There would be both diplomatic and public health value in inviting the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to join as a partner in the fight against the outbreak in China and wider Asia,” he said. “The international community should mobilise its funding for research and development of a vaccine and medications for novel coronaviruses.”
Additional reporting by Laurie Chen

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

More from South China Morning Post:China coronavirus: WHO in uncharted territory in dealing with emergency in world’s second largest economyWuhan coronavirus: what a photo of a drunk Chinese man in Seoul says about fears of the diseaseLeft at home for six days: disabled Chinese boy dies after carer dad and brother are quarantined for coronavirus checksFor the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.