Mums’ group chat about coronavirus descends into brawl when they meet in person 
 TWO mums who came to blows over the coronavirus have ended up in hospital after their argument ended in a serious brawl.

The anonymous women, in their 30s, had a disagreement about the virus on a Facebook mum’s group, according to Northern Beaches police in Sydney shared the story on its Facebook page.

The police status read: “It began with an argument between two women on a mothers’ group chat site about the current coronavirus and its effects.

“From there, the women, both aged in their 30s, agreed to resolve their differences in person, one bringing along another member for support.

“The argument quickly escalated from verbal to physical; pushing, slapping, hair pulling and finally both on the ground, briefly unconscious, all despite the efforts of bystanders trying to intervene.”

One woman needed a scan for a possible brain injury and the other X-rays for a shoulder injury as well as treatment for cuts, bruising and swelling to her arms, upper body and neck.

Police said they had taken out a Personal Violence Order for one against the other as investigations continue.

People on Facebook were quick to comment, with several saying the women weren’t setting a good example for their kids.

There have been 7711 confirmed cases of coronavirus around the world.

The new virus has now infected more people in China than were sickened during the 2002-03 SARS outbreak.

The death toll in China from coronavirus has risen to 170, with confirmed infections surging to around 7,700.

The Department of Health today confirmed that 130 people have been tested for coronavirus in Britain - all have come back negative.

Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation said its emergency committee will meet tomorrow to discuss whether it will declare the outbreak a global emergency.

This story was originally published on news.com.au and has been republished with permission.

In other news, we told you how this woman was left with her cheek hanging off after her bff bit her during a fight over her ex.

And we previously told you how an argument over money went viral after Twitter user tweeted the lovers' tiff.

Plus this furious mum burst into tears when her husband told their daughter, 3, he "loves her more than anything."