Instagram users take advantage of coronavirus hashtag as death toll grows 
 As another crisis descends on the world, as does a flurry of content across social media.

The outbreak of the deadly novel coronavirus in the city of Wuhan has sparked millions of posts across Chinese social media sites including Weibo, WeChat and TikTok, with images and video, some unverified, circulating of the drastic actions from citizens and authorities amid the outbreak.

In the last few days, images of residents wearing plastic water bottles on their heads as a form of make-shift protection and videos of exhausted medical staff inside hospitals breaking down have gone viral.

The surge in coronavirus-related content hasn’t solely been reserved for Asian social media apps, with western apps also seeing a rise in activity.

Instagram, which still has several million users in China despite being banned, is also awash with an array of content linked to the virus that has so far killed 170 people and infected more than 8000.

Not all the posts offer eye-opening images and videos from within the epicentre, with a small percentage of posts, sometimes in a distasteful manner, adding humour to the crisis, including the use of memes.

One running joke online is based on the Mexican beer Corona, which shares its name with the virus.

Yet even more concerning is the Instagram accounts which appear to be hijacking the coronavirus hashtag in an alleged bid to boost traction on posts with little or no relation to the outbreak whatsoever.

Dotted among the thousands of posts using the hashtag are images of men and women posing, sometimes in places geographically far from China.

One man used the hashtag for a topless selfie of himself alongside #chestworkout.

Another woman in Azerbaijan shared a candid photo of herself smiling and seemingly unnerved by the crisis, despite using the hashtag.

One video post used the hashtag for the a gym workout.

Disturbingly, several users also used the hashtag alongside #kobe, a tag being used to pay tribute to the basketball star Kobe Bryant’s recent death.

The worrying trend comes after several social media influencers were accused of using photos of themselves in masks to garner publicity.