Sajid Javid set to back HS2 at crunch meeting - politics live 
 4.37am EST
04:37




Greg Smith, the newly elected Conservative MP for Buckingham, warned this morning that he will vote against HS2 in parliament if the government presses ahead with the project. He told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme:





 

I was very clear in the general election campaign that I am opposed to HS2. It is absolutely wrong for my constituency and I believe it to be wrong for the country as well.

I made very clear commitments in the general election that, come what may, I will oppose HS2.




 Smith said his view was shared by many other MPs, including newly-elected Tories in northern constituencies.





 

We are not against infrastructure. We are just saying that HS2 is the wrong project, it goes along the wrong route at a cost that, frankly, the nation can’t afford.

What the HS2 review group - which has many new northern Conservative MPs on it - is saying is that, instead of HS2, we can do great things that will really improve people’s lives - local commuter routes in our Midlands and northern towns and cities - big improvements to those.

























4.27am EST
04:27




Good morning. This is Haroon Siddique standing in for Andrew Sparrow. It’s a big day for the HS2 rail project today as the chancellor, Sajid Javid, is expected to give his backing to the controversial scheme despite concerns about its spiralling costs, environmental impact and opposition from many Tory MPs, not to mention Dominic Cummings.

A final decision is not expected to be made until next week but Javid will meet Boris Johnson and the transport secretary, Grant Sharps, to discuss HS2 today. Given, he holds the purse strings, the chancellor’s support is key and most papers report this morning that it paves the way for the project to be completed.



Also coming up today:


9.30am - Shapps faces an hour of transport questions in parliament, where HS2 is likely to dominate.

9.30am - Statistics on prison violence and youth justice will be published by the ministry of justice at 9:30 a.m.

12pm - The Bank of England will announce whether interest rates are to be cut for the first time since 2016, ahead of the UK’s departure from the European Union tomorrow.

The government will announce that minimum funding levels for schools are to be enshrined in law. Every secondary school in England will receive at least £5,000 per pupil next year, while primary schools will receive £3,750 per pupil.

After he planned airlift of UK nationals out of parts of China affected by coronavirus was cancelled at the last minute, the government is likely to face pressure about the effectiveness of its response.

Stay tuned for all the political developments today. If you want to catch my attention, the best way is via Twitter @Haroon_Siddique.