Virus fuels racist backlash with calls to ‘nuke’ China and shoppers banned 
 THE coronavirus has triggered an outbreak in racism against Chinese people, experts have warned.

Some businesses are refusing to serve customers with Chinese heritage, while a rash of slurs on social media call for China to be "nuked".

Twitter and Facebook have been inundated with hate speech and racist memes, in some cases inciting violence against Chinese people.

One Twitter user boasted it was "time to suit up" and beat up any Chinese person he saw.

Another urged Donald Trump: "What do ya say we just drop an atomic bomb and stop the coronavirus for good?"

It has added to anxieties felt by Chinese expat communities around the globe who fear they will be blamed for the deadly outbreak.

In France there was outrage after the Courrier Picard newspaper used the headlines "Yellow alert" and "Yellow peril".

Asians hit back at racism with the social media hashtag #JeNeSuisPasUnVirus (IAmNotAVirus).

In Ontario, Canada, parents started a petition demanding children be forced to stay home from school for 17 days of "self-quarantine" if their families have recently visited China.

It prompted the local school board to warn fears over the virus could veer into xenophobia and outright racism.

Ontario doctor Nadia Alam tweeted last night: "Today my son was cornered at school by kids who wanted to 'test' him for #Coronavirus just because he is half-Chinese.

"They chased him. Scared him. And made him cry."

A sweet shop owner in Japan put a sign in the window saying: "No Chinese are allowed to enter - I don't want to catch the virus."

Similar incidents have been reported in Hong Kong and Taiwan targeting people from mainland China.

In South Korea's capital Seoul, a seafood restaurant displayed a sign saying "no Chinese allowed" in red Chinese characters.

"I don’t want to serve Chinese customers right now," the restaurant owner told the Hankyoreh newspaper.

"I have the freedom to accept or reject customers. This is a big deal globally, and it makes me feel icky.”

On the same day, the union of food delivery drivers demanded "danger money" to make deliveries in areas of Seoul with large Chinese populations.

One Chinese-Korean dad said his son left hospital early after a car crash because he feared being blamed for the coronavirus.

He said: “We face severe discrimination at the best of times, and it’s pretty obvious that if my son caught something at the hospital, people would start grousing about ‘those Korean-Chinese’.

"There were false rumours going around during SARS, and it’s the same now.”

Meanwhile rich families in the Gangnam district have openly discussed sacking their nannies - even if they have not recently been to China.

Another resident said in a public forum: “I can’t bring myself to eat out for fear I’ll get hit by spittle from a Korean-Chinese worker.”

Earlier this week, a fake media release claiming to be from the Queensland Department of Health advised people to stay away from “all populated areas with Chinese nationals of ratio of one to three non-Chinese Australians”.

Australia National Unuiversity researcher Yun Jiang said: “I don’t think it’s necessarily turned people into racists but what it does is inflame the existing prejudices within the community.”

The death toll from the virus - thought to have spread from bats - has now reached 170 with more than 7,700 people infected.

A confirmed case in remote Tibet means every region of China now has the virus.

The World Health Organisation warned it could be spread by touching contaminated surfaces, increasing its deadly potential.

Last night a plane sent to evacuate 200 Britons from virus epicentre Wuhan was blocked from leaving by Chinese authorities.

The setback came hours after planes carrying American and Japanese evacuees touched down in their home countries.