Wuhan Coronavirus And China Manufacturing: This Is Going To Hurt 
 Apple’s earnings forecast range for the current quarter is “wider than usual,” thanks to the uncertainty around the Wuhan coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak. That is because the vast majority of Apple’s assemblers and suppliers are in China, as is the case for many firms. Even if you don’t assemble finished product in China, you might be dependent on a supplier based there for components. Many people have been looking at whether firms have suppliers in Hubei Province where Wuhan is located, because they think these will be the supply chains that are impacted first.
But that’s not the right way to look at this problem. The right question is who has a factory in their supply chain for which there are employees who went home to Wuhan or any of the other cities with significant numbers of infected people for the Lunar New Year?  And what will happen when they start to come back, whenever that turns out to be?
A supervisor checks an employee's badge during roll call at a factory in Shanghai, China.  ... [+] Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg
© 2016 Bloomberg Finance LPThe answer is probably everyone. I would guess that just about every factory in the great coastal manufacturing hubs of Guangdong Province and Shenzhen, the Shanghai – Suzhou – Nanjing corridor, or around Chongqing in Sichuan Province has some workers who went home to Wuhan or another contagion area for the holiday. 
The Chinese manufacturing model of the last three decades has been powered by migrant workers who come from inland provinces like Hubei, Shaanxi, Anhui, Hunan, and others. They are recruited to come to the factories, where they live in dormitories, in an environment that is much like a small city. They work for the whole year, and then around this time, the factories close down and everyone goes home to celebrate the Lunar New Year with family.
Living quarters in most factory dormitories are pretty cramped. Often it is four to a room; I have seen as many as 12 to a room with three high bunk beds. The factories themselves are usually beehives of activity, with workers organized in lines or assembly cells, assembling phones, TV sets, Amazon Echo Dots or whatever. It’s not unusual to have 10,000 workers or more in a single building complex working in close quarters. The production lines are designed to churn out volume. I brought a class to visit a smartphone factory a few years ago, and they saw an army of people standing shoulder-to-shoulder churning out 100,000 smartphones a day. For a line like this to work, you need a minimum complement of workers, each doing their assigned tasks. Everybody has to show up.
A woman worker assembles earphones for export in a factory in Suining in southwest China's Sichuan ... [+] province. Photograph by Feature China / Barcroft Media via Getty Images
Barcroft Media via Getty ImagesLunar New Year is always a big disruption to these production systems. Many workers don’t come back – they might decide to stay home with their families, or they might get married, or take another job. Factory managers always are waiting in suspense to see what percentage don’t come back, because then they have to hire and train replacements.
This year, a lot of people won’t be coming back on time. Many companies have already announced that they are delaying reopening, and some cities or provinces like Shanghai and Guangdong have told companies operating there that they may not restart before February 9.  But when they do come back, managers will have to worry about whether any of their workers have potentially been exposed to the virus and will need to be quarantined for two weeks. Imagine an even worse case if virus carriers are not identified and go out on the factory floor and infect others. This will be a nightmare.
There are still a lot of unknowns about how the virus is transmitted, but the projections are pretty scary. The Chinese government and healthcare workers have mounted a heroic effort to stop the contagion.  Let’s wish them the best and hope they can break the contagion cycle. But if you are dependent on a factory in China, this is going to hurt.