Experts say WHO should declare coronavirus outbreak world health emergency 
 Public health experts say the WHO needs to declare the coronavirus outbreak in the Chinese city of Wuhan a global emergency, as Beijing itself locks down cities containing more than 50 million people in the world’s biggest ever national response to an infectious disease crisis.

The calls come as the World Health Organisation is set to reconvene its emergency committee in Geneva later on Thursday – the third time in a week – to assess whether the new virus spreading from China now constitutes a “public health emergency of international concern”, or PHEIC.

The pneumonia-like illness has killed 170 people and sickened more than 7,000 in China so far, with dozens more cases confirmed elsewhere, including in the United States, Japan, Thailand and Germany.

The 16 independent experts on the WHO’s emergency committee will advise director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on the decision and give recommendations for managing the outbreak.

Tedros met Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing earlier in the week to discuss the situation.

The WHO twice last week decided to hold off from declaring a public health emergency, saying it was “too soon”, and raising concern among experts that the virus could get beyond control if swift action was not taken.

Hitoshi Oshitani, a former regional adviser on communicable disease surveillance and response at the WHO’s Western Pacific office, said there was “an imminent risk” of a global outbreak.

“I think the WHO should have declared a public health emergency of international concern earlier. They are supposed to declare PHEIC based on a risk of international spread. There was already significant risk of international spread one week ago,” said Oshitani, who is now with the Department of Virology at the Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine in Japan.

Oshitani said it was more difficult to control the new coronavirus than it was Sars during the 2002-03 outbreak, because patients were likely to be contagious even before they had symptoms – meaning the measures currently being taken might not be enough to stop it from spreading.

“For Sars, patients were infectious only when they developed very severe illness. But for this virus, patients are likely to be infectious even during the incubation period. If so, rapid isolation is not enough to contain the virus,” he said.

Severe acute respiratory syndrome, which is also a coronavirus, killed 813 people and sickened more than 8,000 worldwide, according to the WHO.

But Oshitani said he did not believe the response by Chinese authorities had been inadequate.

“I believe that they had Sars-based responses, which is not adequate for this virus,” he said. “Probably when they realised the difference, there were already too many cases that originated from mild or asymptomatic cases.”

A new study by Chinese scientists has suggested the period between exposure to the coronavirus and symptoms could be as long as 5.2 days, and that it varied among patients.

The team studied the first 425 people infected with the new coronavirus, and their findings supported a 14-day observation period for people who might have been exposed to it, according to the research published in the New England Journal of Medicine on Wednesday.

China’s National Health Commission on Sunday said the virus was contagious even in its incubation period, which lasted up to 14 days.

Amesh Adalja, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Centre for Health Security, said other countries needed to “scale up” their disease prevention efforts, and a WHO declaration could help to tackle the epidemic.

“At this point, a de facto emergency exists, however the declaration may mobilise more resources to combat the outbreak,” he said.

Five global public health emergencies have been previously declared by the WHO. It has been criticised in the past for responding too slowly to other crises, including last year over the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo, which it eventually declared an international public health emergency.