DOH exec: N95 mask doesn’t protect you fully, but healthy lifestyle can 
 MANILA, Philippines – A Department of Health (DOH) official has clarified that N95 masks cannot provide full protection against the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV), as the agency puts more emphasis on pursuing a healthy lifestyle.

DOH Assistant Secretary Eric Tayag on Thursday clarified that microscopic particles of the 2019-nCoV may somehow pass through the N95 masks, although DOH previously said that the said virus may only be transferred through direct contact.

“For our purposes, sa novel coronavirus, pwede na ‘yong occupational grade lang.  N95 kasi 95 percent ng mga mikrobyo kasing liit ng 0.3 microns ay pwede kang maproteksyunan,” Tayag explained in a radio interview with DZMM.

“Kaya lang ‘yong novel coronavirus ay 0.1 (microns), mas maliit.  [But at least], mas may proteksyon ka, laban naman sa wala,” he added.

Tayag stressed that it is important to wash hands properly, following the “Happy Birthday” rule where the duration of the handwashing should be as long as the birthday song.

He also advised the public to check if they are wearing their N95 masks properly — which means that no air exhaled by the user should escape the mask — aside from this, he advised buyers to check if the N95 masks are legitimate and not counterfeit items.

However, Tayag said that there is no need to wear masks in public, as only those inside hospitals and people who are currently sick who need it.

He also insisted that the general public should be strategic, as hoarding N95 masks would leave health workers who frequent hospitals without an adequate supply.

“Ito nire-rekomenda namin sa ospital […] sa general public, ‘pag nakita namin kayong ganito, ay overkill na po ‘yan,” Tayag said. “Magkakaubusan kasi ng mask, so let’s be strategic.”

“‘Yong may ubo’t sipon, ‘yon na lang ‘yong magma-mask, nang sa gano’n, hindi niya kinakalat ‘yon.  Ngayon ‘yong mga talagang dapat gumamit, ‘yong sa opsital, kasi dapat ‘yong doktor at nurse natin healthy, kasi kung hindi sila magma-mask at mahawa sila, sino pang gagamot sa atin?” he asked.

Several Filipinos have flocked to drug stores and hardware shops in hopes of purchasing masks, but some areas in Metro Manila have already run out of supplies — especially since the masks were also required to protect people from the Taal Volcano’s ashfall.

The demand for surgical masks and N95 masks skyrocketed brought about by the 2019-nCoV scare. The virus originated from Wuhan City in mainland China. As of Thursday, more than 7,000 individuals have been infected with the virus, with at least 170 now dead.

After the DOH confirmed a 2019-nCoV case in the Philippines, the sale of masks are expected to increase.