A chunk of Donald Trump's new border wall blew over 
 A portion of President Donald Trump's border wall blew over on to the Mexican side due to strong winds, according to NBC News-affiliate KYMA.

Video of the event showed the border wall section swaying in the wind as crews tried to stabilize it. 

The section of the wall was under construction as part of Trump's signature policy. It replaced existing wall rather than extending the overall coverage any further.

A Customs and Border Protection agent told CNN that the wall was newly installed and had been set in concrete that had not yet cured. 


A portion of President Donald Trump's border wall blew in strong winds and fell into Mexico, according to NBC News-affiliate KYMA.
The border wall collapsed around midday local time on Wednesday, and landed on a row of trees, according to police in Mexicali, a town on the Mexico-California border.
Screenshot/KYMA
The fallen length of wall was around 130 feet long.
Agent Carlos Pitones of the Customs and Border Protection sector in El Centro, California, told CNN that the wall was newly installed and had been set in concrete that had not yet hardened. 
According to CNN, the National Weather Service recorded wind gusts up to 37 mph when the wall fell down.
Google Maps/Business Insider
Video showed the border wall section swaying in the wind as crews tried to stabilize it. 
It was being put up as part of Trump's signature policy to reinforce and extend the physical barrier diving Mexico from the US.
His original ambition to swiftly erect a full new barrier along the entire 1,954-mile border has been repeatedly scaled back.
This section of wall was being built to replace a part of the border that already exists.
According to KYMA, nobody appears to have been hurt by the collapse. 
In January, the Washington Post reported that the Trump administration was preparing to divert $7.2 billion from the Pentagon's budget to pay for wall-building. 
Trump replaced a decaying portion of the border partition with a 14-mile stretch of 18- to 30-foot slatted fence in September.
When Trump visited the $147-million border wall replacement project in Otay Mesa, California, he called the design "amazing" and signed his name in Sharpie pen. 
But Trump's border plans have faced criticism both for their cost and effectiveness.
A video that went viral in December showed people easily sliding down the border wall slats like a fireman's pole before running away as a Border Patrol vehicle pulls up. 
Other videos have emerged showing people as young as eight-years-old scaling an 18-foot replica of the wall. One man was able to climb while juggling.

  
                  
        
          

                                    



  
    
      
        22 PHOTOS

        President Trump visits border wall prototypes amid protests

        See Gallery

      

    

  


                                                      
    
    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
  
  


    

    
                                                    
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                US President Donald Trump is shown border wall prototypes in San Diego, California on March 13, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / MANDEL NGAN        (Photo credit should read MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                People hold signs during a protest while standing in front of the current border fence and near the prototypes of U.S. President Donald Trump's border wall, in Tijuana, Mexico March 13, 2018. The sign on the right reads "Trump, walls can be jumped over". REUTERS/Edgard Garrido

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                US President Donald Trump inspects border wall prototypes in San Diego, California on March 13, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / MANDEL NGAN        (Photo credit should read MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                People attach a sign reading "Trump, stop the mass deportations" to the current border fence and near the prototypes of U.S. President Donald Trump's border wall, during a protest in Tijuana, Mexico March 13, 2018. REUTERS/Edgard Garrido

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                US President Donald Trump's motorcade arrives at the border fence in San Diego, California on March 13, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / MANDEL NGAN        (Photo credit should read MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                People hold signs reading "No to the wall" and "Trump, put your wall, but in your territory, not in ours", during a protest near the prototypes of U.S. President Donald Trump's border wall, seen behind the current border fence, in Tijuana, Mexico March 13, 2018. REUTERS/Edgard Garrido

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                US President Donald Trump is shown border wall prototypes with White House Chief of Staff John Kelly (L) in San Diego, California on March 13, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / MANDEL NGAN        (Photo credit should read MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                A man holds a sign reading "Trump, put your wall, but in your territory, not in ours", during a protest near the prototypes of U.S. President Donald Trump's border wall, seen behind the current border fence, in Tijuana, Mexico March 13, 2018. REUTERS/Edgard Garrido

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                US President Donald Trump arrives to inspect border wall prototypes in San Diego, California on March 13, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / MANDEL NGAN        (Photo credit should read MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                People hold signs reading "No to the wall, Trump," and "Trump, we are not enemies of the USA" during a protest near the prototypes of U.S. President Donald Trump's border wall, seen behind the current border fence, in Tijuana, Mexico March 13, 2018. REUTERS/Edgard Garrido

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                US President Donald Trump speaks during an inspection of border wall prototypes in San Diego, California on March 13, 2018.
Donald Trump -- making his first trip to California as president -- warned there would be 'bedlam' without the controversial wall he wants to build on the border with Mexico, as he inspected several prototype barriers. The trip to the 'Golden State' -- the most populous in the country and a Democratic stronghold -- was largely upstaged by his own announcement that he had sacked Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.
 / AFP PHOTO / MANDEL NGAN        (Photo credit should read MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                Mexican Federal Police officers stand guard the Mexican side of the Mexico-US border in Tijuana, Baja California state, from where prototypes of the border wall, which US President Donald Trump will inspect on the outskirts of San Diego, in the US, are visible on March 13, 2018. 
Fresh off a cabinet reshuffle, President Donald Trump was headed for Democratic stronghold California on Tuesday to inspect prototypes of the controversial border wall with Mexico that was the centerpiece of his White House campaign. / AFP PHOTO / GUILLERMO ARIAS        (Photo credit should read GUILLERMO ARIAS/AFP/Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                People hold signs reading "Trump, we will not pay for the wall" and "Trump, stop the mass deportations" near the border fence between Mexico and the U.S., in Tijuana, Mexico March 13, 2018. REUTERS/Edgard Garrido

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                Journalists gather at a rooftop near the US -Mexico border as President Trump is expected to inspect the border wall prototypes built outskirts San Diego, in Tijuana, Baja California State, Mexico, on March 13, 2018.
Fresh off a cabinet reshuffle, President Donald Trump was headed for Democratic stronghold California on Tuesday to inspect prototypes of the controversial border wall with Mexico that was the centerpiece of his White House campaign. / AFP PHOTO / GUILLERMO ARIAS        (Photo credit should read GUILLERMO ARIAS/AFP/Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                U.S. police officers use a ladder to climb up a truck parked in front of the prototypes of U.S. President Donald Trump's border wall, on the U.S. side of the current border fence, in Tijuana, Mexico March 13, 2018. REUTERS/Jorge Duenes

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                An agent faces Mexico while standing by the vehicle of U.S. President Donald Trump at the border near San Diego, California, where Trump reviewed wall prototypes designed to serve as a protective barrier against illegal immigrants, drugs and smuggled weapons, March 13, 2018. REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                A U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Border Patrol Agent sits on horseback near  U.S. President Donald Trump's motorcade during a tour of U.S.-Mexico border wall prototypes near the Otay Mesa Port of Entry in San Diego, California. U.S., March 13, 2018. REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                TIJUANA, MEXICO - MARCH 13:Anti-Trump protestors demonstrate on the Mexico side of the border before the arrival of the U.S. President to inspect the prototypes of the proposed border wall on March 13, 2018 in Tijuana, Mexico.  (Photo by Wally Skalij/Los Angeles Times via Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                The motorcade carrying US President Donald Trump drives past a US-Mexico border fence as Trump head for an inspection of  border wall prototypes in San Diego, California on March 13, 2018.
Donald Trump -- making his first trip to California as president -- warned there would be 'bedlam' without the controversial wall he wants to build on the border with Mexico, as he inspected several prototype barriers. The trip to the 'Golden State' -- the most populous in the country and a Democratic stronghold -- was largely upstaged by his own announcement that he had sacked Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.
 / AFP PHOTO / MANDEL NGAN        (Photo credit should read MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                Mounted Border Patrol agents are seen as US President Donald Trump inspects border wall prototypes in San Diego, California on March 13, 2018.
Donald Trump -- making his first trip to California as president -- warned there would be 'bedlam' without the controversial wall he wants to build on the border with Mexico, as he inspected several prototype barriers. The trip to the 'Golden State' -- the most populous in the country and a Democratic stronghold -- was largely upstaged by his own announcement that he had sacked Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.
 / AFP PHOTO / MANDEL NGAN        (Photo credit should read MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                US President Donald Trump inspects border wall prototypes in San Diego, California on March 13, 2018.
Donald Trump -- making his first trip to California as president -- warned there would be 'bedlam' without the controversial wall he wants to build on the border with Mexico, as he inspected several prototype barriers. The trip to the 'Golden State' -- the most populous in the country and a Democratic stronghold -- was largely upstaged by his own announcement that he had sacked Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.
 / AFP PHOTO / MANDEL NGAN        (Photo credit should read MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images)

                              

            

          

                                                      
                    
                    
          

            
              
                                US President Donald Trump holds up a poster of before and after photos of a segment of the border wall prototypes with Chief Patrol Agent Rodney S. Scott (R) in San Diego, California on March 13, 2018.  / AFP PHOTO / MANDEL NGAN        (Photo credit should read MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images)

                              

            

          

              
      

      
        
          
        
      
      
        
          
        
      
      
        
          
        
      
      
        
          
        
      

      

    

    
      HIDE CAPTION

      SHOW CAPTION

      
    


    

  






        
    More from Business Insider:
                          
The European Parliament joined hands and sang Auld Lang Syne in an emotional Brexit farewell to the UK
                          
10 things in tech you need to know today
                          
Wuhan is running low on food, hospitals are overflowing, and foreigners are being evacuated as panic sets in after a week under coronavirus lockdown