PRECIOUS-Gold gains as coronavirus fears fuel demand for safe havens 
 © Reuters.  PRECIOUS-Gold gains as coronavirus fears fuel demand for safe havens
        
    
    

        (Adds comment, updates prices)

* Germany's 10-year Bund yield slips to near 3-month low

* U.S. 10-year Treasury yields falls to lowest since Oct. 10

* WHO to decide whether virus constitutes global emergency

* Norilsk Nickel to deliver 3 T of palladium to market

By K. Sathya Narayanan

Jan 30 (Reuters) - Gold extended the previous session's gains on Thursday as mounting worries that an outbreak of coronavirus centred on China could impact global economic growth pushed investors into safe havens.

Spot gold  was up 0.2% to $1,579.44 per ounce by 1018 GMT after rising 0.7% on Wednesday, while U.S.  GCcv1 were 0.5% higher at $1,578.60.

"The whole run into gold and government debts (bonds), away from equities, is due to worries regarding the scale of the outbreak of the virus," said SP Angel analyst Sergey Raevskiy.

" prices are falling off a cliff, which is an indication of how the markets perceive the risks of the virus to the economic growth." Copper is often regarded as a leading indicator of the health of the global economy. MET/L

Equities across globe tumbled, while Germany's benchmark 10-year Bund yield  slipped to a near three-month low and U.S. 10-year Treasury yields  slid to their lowest since Oct. 10. MKTS/GLOB US/ Chinese government economist on Wednesday said China's economic growth may drop to 5% or even lower due to the outbreak, which has claimed 170 lives so far and spread to over 10 countries.  Reserve chair Jerome Powell acknowledged the risks of a short-term slowdown in China due to the virus, including to the U.S. economy, in a news conference following the bank's widely expected decision to keep interest rates unchanged.  is often seen as a safe store of value during times of political and economic uncertainty.

The World Health Organisation (WHO) will reconvene on Thursday to decide whether the coronavirus outbreak constitutes a global emergency. on investors' radar was the Bank of England's monetary policy decision on Thursday, where the central bank appears to be close to cutting interest rates for the first time in more than three years. interest rates reduce the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding bullion.

"Technically, if the (gold) price can surpass the high reached three days ago at (around) $1,585, we will have another signal of strength," ActivTrades chief analyst Carlo Alberto De Casa said in a note.

Gold is being supported by markets' struggle to understand the "real" impact of the virus on the global economy, he added.

Elsewhere, palladium  lost 0.2% to $2,284.08 per ounce, having hit a record high of $2,582.19 on Jan. 20 on supply worries.

Russia's Norilsk Nickel said on Wednesday its Global Palladium Fund would deliver three tonnes of palladium ingots to the market from its current stock to provide short-term relief to tight supplies.   gained 1.1% to $17.72, while platinum  fell 0.6%, to $968.62.