Sanders campaign says it raised more than $1.3 million in one day after negative ad 
 Sen. Bernie Sanders Bernie SandersSanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Weld bets on New Hampshire to fuel long shot bid against Trump MORE’s (I-Vt.) campaign said Wednesday it raised more than $1.3 million in one day in response to a super PAC’s negative ad targeting the senator and the heart attack he suffered last year.

The presidential candidate received more than 70,000 donations the day after his campaign warned supporters about an ad from the Democratic Majority for Israel scheduled to begin airing Wednesday, The New York Times reported.

The super PAC launched the almost $700,000 ad campaign in the days before the Iowa caucuses. The ad highlights voters characterizing Sanders as too risky as a left-wing progressive to beat President Trump Donald John TrumpDemocrats outraged over White House lawyer's claim that some foreign involvement in elections is acceptable Senators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session White House announces task force to monitor coronavirus MORE, with one voter also mentioning his heart attack earlier in the campaign and their concerns about the senator’s health.

Sanders’s campaign manager Faiz Shakir said in a statement obtained by the Times that all Democratic presidential candidates should denounce “negative attack ads run by dark money groups.”

“But what our ​fund-raising ​numbers show is our supporters know the establishment will do anything to try to stop Bernie, and they’re ready to rally to his side at a moment’s notice,” he said.

An official from the Sanders campaign deferred to the Times article for comment.

Sanders and former Vice President Joe Biden Joe BidenSenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session Sanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial MORE are in a tight race in the Hawkeye state, with former South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg Peter (Pete) Paul ButtigiegSanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Overnight Health Care — Presented by Philip Morris International — Dems warn Trump against Medicaid block grants | Sanders under pressure on how to pay for 'Medicare for All' | China to allow in US health officials to study coronavirus MORE and Sen. Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth Ann WarrenSanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Weld bets on New Hampshire to fuel long shot bid against Trump MORE (D-Mass.) right up there with them.