Thousands 'held on cruise ship amid fears Chinese couple has coronavirus' 
 About 7,000 passengers and crew are being held on a cruise ship in Italy amid fears that Chinese holidaymakers could be carrying coronavirus, it is reported.

A husband and wife from China have been put in isolation on the Costa Smerelda, which could have Britons on board, after the couple had a fever and respiratory problems, Italian media reported.

The two have been checked by doctors and undergone tests to find out if they have the SARS-like virus, which has killed at least 170 people in China and infected more than 7,700 others.

If they are carrying the killer bug, there are fears that it could have already spread to hundreds of others on board the vessel, which is docked at a port in Civitavecchia, north-west of Rome, with about 6,000 passengers and 1,000 crew.

Are you on board the Costa Smerelda? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.

The Chinese couple arrived at Milan's Malpensa Airport on Saturday and travelled about 100 miles to the port city of Savona, where they boarded the Smerelda, Ansa reported.

The ship had made previous stops in Mallorca, Barcelona and Marseille en route to Italy.

Ernesto Tedesco, mayor of Civitavecchia, told TRC Giornale: "There is a suspected case of coronavirus at the port of Civitavecchia."

The brand new ship, which made its inaugural voyage in December, has a maximum capacity for just over 6,500 passengers and 1,600 crew.

Health experts have expressed fears that Chinese holidaymakers could spread the virus during journeys abroad.

It can take days for symptoms to appear and doubts have been cast on the effectiveness of screening measures at airports.

Like other respiratory infections, coronavirus is transmitted between people in droplets from coughs and sneezes.

It has an incubation of between one and 14 days, and there are signs it may spread before symptoms show.

Symptoms can include a fever, cough and breathing difficulties, and it can lead to pneumonia and other potentially-deadly complications.

As of Thursday morning, the virus has killed at least 170 people and infected more than 7,700 others during the outbreak in China.

Most of the cases have occurred in Hubei province and its capital, Wuhan, where the outbreak began late last month.

Experts believe the virus spread to humans at a live animal market in the city of 11million.

Infections have been reported in at least 16 other countries - including France, Germany, the US, Canada and Australia - with 105 confirmed cases.

No deaths have occurred outside China.

China has locked down the affected regions - halting flights and public transport - and imposed travel restrictions on its citizens in a desperate bid to contain the flu-like virus.

British Airways and other airlines have suspended flights to China, and Britain is planning to rescue about 200 UK citizens who are trapped in Wuhan, ground zero for the outbreak.

The US and Japan have already evacuated hundreds of their citizens.

Russia closed its border with China as further travel restrictions were imposed on Thursday.