Evacuated Americans will not be quarantined at military base 
 More than 200 Americans who landed at a California military base yesterday after being evacuated from the epicentre of the deadly coronavirus outbreak in China will be held in quarantine for 72 hours.

Passengers onboard the flight from Wuhan, where the infectious disease originated before spreading to all other Chinese provinces killing 170, were screened four times over the course of the 14-hour journey.

The 201 onboard were screen twice before departure and twice more during a refueling stop in Anchorage, Alaska, late Tuesday night before landing at March Air Reserve Base near Riverside, California, on Wednesday morning.

There are said to be 1,000 Americans living in Wuhan - but only 201 ended up on the flight which could hold up to 240.

It is understood the others were not able to get through the screening process, while one was denied travel because they had a fever.

Included among the passengers are children aged from one-month-old to their teens, officials said.

The plane was originally scheduled to fly to Ontario International Airport in Ontario, California, but was diverted to the air base 25 miles away without explanation.

The passengers said they would stay at the base voluntarily, said Dr. Chris Braden of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

'They wanted to know their own status. They wanted to know the status of their children. They wanted to protect their family, They wanted to protect others,' he told CNN.

The plan is to hold the passengers for three days, monitoring them for fever and other symptoms at least twice daily, Dr Braden added.

It is understood that health officials will allow the passengers to go home after 72 hours if they don't present any signs of infection, but that they will be monitored locally for a further 14 days thereafter.

They can also voluntarily remain at the base for the full 14 days.

Should anyone demand to go home before they're cleared, an individual quarantine is an option, Braden said.

Some US citizens voiced their concern about the seemingly short quarantine process on social media.

The UK has implemented a mandatory 14-day quarantine for all returning citizens.

Japanese authorities said that those who showed symptoms would be transferred directly to a hospital, while others who appeared healthy would be tested for the virus and then asked to quarantine themselves for two weeks.

More than 7,000 people have been sickened by the deadly strain in at least 18 countries amid an international effort to stop the spread.

China has cut off access to Wuhan and 16 other cities in Hubei province to prevent people from leaving and spreading the virus further. In addition to the United States, countries including Japan and South Korea have also planned evacuations.