Elderly woman confronted by police for refusing to wear mask amid coronavirus 
 An elderly bus passenger in China was confronted by police and scolded for not wearing a face mask as the deadly coronavirus sweeps the country.

Footage shows the bare-faced woman sitting on the bus surrounding by masked passengers in Pingdinghan.

She appears to ignore the officer who is telling her off and start rummaging through her bag as he points his finger at her.

A second officer appears and offers her a mask but she refuses to look at him even as he steps near her and pokes the mask in her face.

She finally acknowledges he is there by shaking her head but according to the officers she refused to accept the mask.

Have you been affected by coronavirus? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.

The video clip, shot Monday, has emerged as the death toll from coronavirus in China has crept up to 170 people and infected more than 7,700 others, mostly in Wuhan and Hubei, but the flu-like virus has spread around the world.

China opened its first coronavirus hospital this week after around 500 workers and volunteers spent just 48 hours converting an empty building.

The medical building had been set to open in May, but following the deadly outbreak, it was all hands on deck to get it completed.

It boasts 1,000-beds and the first batch of coronavirus patients were transferred at around 10.30pm on Tuesday.

The hospital, called the Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Centre, in Huanggang, also has water, electricity and internet.

It is expected to relieve some of the pressure on doctors and nurses in Hubei province - the epicentre of the outbreak - where overwhelmed hospitals were running out of beds, masks and other supplies as they were inundated with patients.

A planned flight to bring British nationals back to the UK from Wuhan will not take place on Thursday.

The British government had anticipated flying around 200 UK citizens out of the country but it is understood Chinese officials have not yet granted permission for the chartered flight to depart.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "We are doing everything we can to get British people in Wuhan safely back to the UK. A number of countries' flights have been unable to take off as planned.

"We continue working urgently to organise a flight to the UK as soon as possible.

"We remain in close contact with the Chinese authorities and conversations are ongoing at all levels."

Britons returning from Wuhan will be put in quarantine for 14 days.