5 things to know for January 30: Impeachment, Iraq, coronavirus, 2020 Dems, Tanzania 
 If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.

(CNN) Parents, listen up: Four companies have recalled more than 165,000 infant incline sleepers due to suffocation risks.

Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.

President Trump's impeachment defense strategy has shifted again. Trump's impeachment lawyer Alan Dershowitz now claims that not only are certain forms of quid pro quo not impeachable offenses but that they're OK if the President is attempting to get reelected  because getting reelected is acting in the interest of the nation. And speaking of plot twists, some leaders have thrown a wrench into the debate over whether to call witnesses in the trial. If witnesses are allowed, some suggest calling Hunter Biden, Joe Biden's son , to the stand, which is something many Democrats would be nervous about doing. The Trump administration is also ramping up efforts to attack former national security adviser and potential trial witness John Bolton. The White House sent a formal threat to Bolton telling him not to publish his forthcoming memoir, which includes key allegations that could implicate Trump in the Ukraine scandal. Trump also attacked Bolton online, which is a strategy the President has used in the past to threaten or discredit potential witnesses against him.

More than 100 cases of the Wuhan coronavirus have now been identified outside China, even as countries scramble to protect their citizens. In all, there have been at least 170 deaths and more than 7,700 confirmed cases of the virus. In an attempt to diffuse crowds and slow the spread of the virus, China has extended the Lunar New Year holiday by up to a week in some places. In the meantime, please, don't believe everything you hear. Misinformation about the virus, including conspiracy theories about how it's spread and promises of magical cures, are making the rounds on the internet . Facebook says it's working with fact-checking partners to debunk some of the claims. Twitter and TikTok have also said they're taking steps to curb the spread of misinformation. Follow live updates here.

The all-important Iowa caucuses are Monday night , and everyone's pulling out some last-minute strategy. Joe Biden's aides have raised the possibility of forming an alliance with Sen. Amy Klobuchar, but Klobuchar's camp says it's not taking the offer -- or any offer for alliances to weather the caucus storm (Pete Buttigieg's campaign also seems open to compromising with Klobuchar voters). The idea behind such an alliance is that each campaign would be the other's Plan B in areas where they don't have enough support. Bernie Sanders is facing a different kind of challenge . A pro-Israel Democratic super PAC has launched a new ad in Iowa that questions his health and electability. If elected, Sanders would be the country's first Jewish president.

Popeyes launched a clothing line, and it looks a lot like Beyonce's brand

Nike has completely sold out of Kobe Bryant gear

People lie to seem more honest, study says

Genetically engineered moths have been released into the wild to fight pests

UPS is going to test self-driving delivery vans

"Unfortunately, the federal government has repeatedly failed to take action to protect kids from flavored tobacco products."

Restoring old paintings has to be equal parts fulfilling and nerve-wracking. On one hand, you're bringing new life to masterworks. On the other hand, you have to be really, REALLY careful. ( Click here to view .)