Coronavirus: UK still negotiating 'difficult issues' over delayed Wuhan evacuation – live news 
 Umbrellas were used to protect South Korea’s interior minister, Chin Young, from being pelted with eggs amid anger plans to quarantine hundreds of Koreans travelling back from China.

 Photograph: Kim Jun-beom/AP


Angry South Koreans have volleyed eggs and expletives at a minister and officials trying over plans to quarantine hundreds of citizens set to be flown home from Wuhan, Reuters reports.

The first of up to four flights planned to evacuate South Koreans from Wuhan had been expected to depart on Thursday morning, but China had only approved one flight, causing a delay until later in the day, South Korea’s foreign minister said.

South Korea also reported its fifth and sixth confirmed cases of the virus on Thursday, including the first case of a person infected in South Korea. Previous cases only involved people who had travelled to Wuhan.

About 700 South Koreans in Wuhan have registered to be flown out, but protesters in Asan and Jincheon, cities about 80 km (50 miles) south of Seoul, the capital, used tractors on Wednesday to block access to facilities earmarked for quarantine centres.

In Asan, demonstrators threw eggs and swore when Chin Young, the minister of interior and safety, arrived to talk to them on Thursday, prompting police to hold up black umbrellas as a shield.

“If it’s so safe why don’t you bring them to your home?” one protester shouted at Chin.
The minister said he sympathised with the concerns and sought their understanding, saying the facilities were chosen as the only ones large enough to accommodate the evacuees.

“South Korean citizens in Wuhan are suffering... So we need to bring them in as soon as possible, right?” he said.

The government wants to isolate evacuees for at least two weeks at the facilities, usually used as training centres for government officials, to rule out any symptoms.

Ahead of Thursday’s flights, President Moon Jae-in called for calm and decried “fake news” for having stirred up excessive anxiety.