China coronavirus: Hong Kong prisoners to work through the night to boost mask production to 70,000 a day 
 Hong Kong’s prison authority will have inmates making facial masks around the clock from next Monday to boost production by 55 per cent to 70,000 per day amid the coronavirus outbreak, the Post has learned.

Currently about 60 inmates at Lo Wu Correctional Institution – a maximum-security prison for female adult inmates and remands – can produce around 45,000 masks daily for government departments.

A government source said some inmates had volunteered to work around the clock in the factory, hoping to boost production during a surgical mask shortage.

But the source stressed that the extra production would be for government use.

“It is up to the Government Logistics Department [GLD] to decide how they want to use the supply,” the source said.

He said the Correctional Services Department would look at the wages and meal provisions for these volunteers as it was a hardship for them to work overnight, while extra manpower and security arrangement would also be needed.

“We are also looking at building an extra factory within a month to double production to up to 140,000 per day,” the source added.

The source said workers would work in three shifts, eight hours a day, earning up to HK$200 a week.

It was understood that Woo Ying-ming, the commissioner of correctional services, visited the institution on Thursday and thanked the volunteers for helping the city battle the epidemic.

Inmates who will be allowed to take part must be in good health and wear work clothes, gloves, caps and masks. The workshop is an isolated area with air conditioning and air-purifying systems to ensure hygiene.

In 2013, the prison authority increased working hours to boost production to 60,000 masks a day as demand for the products increased because of a possible H7N9 outbreak.

The GLD had earlier said that it procured an average of 1.1 million masks a month from the prison authority and issued them to different government departments.

“To support the operational use of relevant bureaus and departments under the preparedness and response plans for infectious diseases, the GLD is required to maintain a stock of 10 million masks,” a department spokesman said on Sunday.

In recent media briefings, Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor and other top government officials were seen wearing green surgical masks produced by Hong Kong prison inmates in Hong Kong. The mask has “CSI” marked on it – representing the Correctional Services Industries.

A daily average of 4,392 people in custody in 2018 took part in about 130 workshops, generating a total of HK$442 million (US$56.9 million) commercial value of products and services, such as carpentry, laundry services, road signs and garments.

This article China coronavirus: Hong Kong prisoners to work through the night to boost mask production to 70,000 a day first appeared on South China Morning Post

For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.