Delta Cuts Flights To China, Joining American And United. All Three Will Still Serve Beijing And Shanghai 
 Air Asia flight attendants wear face masks on arrival at Kuala Lumpur International Airport on ... [+] Wednesday (Photo by MOHD RASFAN/AFP via Getty Images)
AFP via Getty ImagesCommercial air service between the U.S. and China is temporarily contracting due to fears of the coronavirus.
Late Wednesday afternoon, Delta joined its peers in cutting China service. 
Delta, the fourth biggest carrier in the market, said it will cut daily China flights to 21 from 42.  The reduced schedule will be in effect Feb. 6 through April 30.  Delta said it “may make additional adjustments as the situation continues to evolve.”
Under its reduced schedule, Delta  “will continue to operate from all current U.S.-China gateways,”  but with three to four weekly flights on each route. Delta routes include Beijing from Detroit and Seattle, and Shanghai from Atlanta, Detroit, Los Angeles and Seattle.
Earlier Wednesday, American Airlines said  it will suspend service from Los Angeles International Airport to Beijing and Shanghai from February 9 through March 27. 
American cited “the significant decline in demand for travel to and from China.”  However, American plans to maintain service from Dallas to Beijing, Shanghai, and Hong Kong as well as Los Angeles-Hong Kong service.
The move by American, the fifth-largest carrier in the market, follows United, the second largest, which said Tuesday it would temporarily reduce its schedule, cancelling 24 round-trip flights between February 1 and February 8. 
United cited a “significant decline in demand” on the routes. It flies a dozen daily flights to China and has canceled three or four flights a day. Going forward, United said, “We will adjust our schedule as needed.”
In terms of passengers carried non-stop between the two countries, Air China is the largest, followed by United, Hainan Airlines, Delta Air Lines, American Airlines, Xiamen Airlines and Sichuan Airlines, according to aviation analytics firm OAG.
About 4% of United revenue derives from China, while 10% derives from Asia, according to Cowen  Co. analyst Helane Becker. That is far more than peers. American derives 2% of revenue from China and 3% from Asia, Becker said, while Delta derives 4% from China and 5% from Asia.
United has 4% of its capacity in China, Delta has 3% and American has 2%. 
Shares in all three carriers have fallen since Jan. 17, when the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said it would begin screening passengers at Los Angeles, San Francisco and New York Kennedy airports. The CDC said Tuesday that it would expand screening to 20 airports.
As of Tuesday’s close, United shares were down 14%, Delta shares down 7% and American shares down 5%.
The virus’ long-term impact on commercial air travel is unclear.
Airport consultant Mike Boyd wrote Tuesday in Forbes that air travel between the U.S. was spinning into a free-fall.
“This event is going to devastate traffic for a period of at least six months or maybe longer,” Boyd wrote. “Depending on the developments in China, through this June we are forecasting at least a 75% drop in passenger traffic between the USA and China. That figure sounds extreme, but as the knowledge of the nature and the extent of the new virus grows, it may actually be optimistic.”
However, John Grant, OAG senior analyst, said events such as the outbreak of the coronavirus “are a regular occurrence in the global aviation industry, and airlines, airports and authorities have well-tested control processes that they put in place to safeguard the travel community. 
“Demand for air travel is remarkably resilient, particularly in emerging markets and we should expect the normal bounce-back in travel that we have seen with similar events,” Grant said.
Here is OAG’s ranking of airlines providing U.S.-China service, based on estimated bookings between November 2018 and October 2019.
Air China 1,637,669  (Top route: Beijing-LAX 496,102)
United Airlines 1,543,842  (Top route: SFO-Shanghai 311,297))
Hainan Airlines 1,037,640  (Top route: Beijing-Boston 156,710)
Delta Air Lines 948,312   (Top route: Detroit-Shanghai 180,362)
American Airlines 654,141 (Top route: Dallas-Shanghai 178,123)
 Xiamen Airlines 291,191 (Top route: Xiamen-LAX 113,136)
 Sichuan Airlines 153,375 (Top route: Hangzhou-LAX 57,814)