Impose travel ban from China now, gov’t told as first nCoV case hits PH 
 MANILA, Philippines — Several senators have appealed to the government to immediately impose a ban on travelers coming from China as the Philippines confirmed its first case of novel coronavirus (nCoV).

The Department of Health (DOH) said a 38-year-old Chinese woman, who arrived in the Philippines via a flight from Hong Kong last week, tested positive for novel coronavirus, which first broke out in the capital city of Wuhan in Hubei province.

“We appeal to our government to impose travel restrictions to and from China,” Senator Joel Villanueva said in a statement on Thursday.

“With the news that the country has recorded the first case of the nCoV this afternoon, the government must prioritize the safety and security of our people over other considerations,” he added.

Villanueva also called on the Filipino public to avoid crowded places and to follow safety precautions.

He also dissuaded the public against circulating fake news online, which he said could incite people to fear and panic.

“Finally, we ask our health department to intensify its information dissemination campaign, and ensure that our health facilities are properly equipped to handle the spread of this virus,” he added.

Villanueva, who chairs the Senate labor committee, also urged returning overseas Filipino workers (OFWs) to China and those who are set for deployment to that country to “postpone their trips there indefinitely to minimize the risk of being infected with the virus.”

“For OFWs stranded in the quarantined areas, please follow the health protocol being observed in the area. Help our diplomatic staff there by notifying your status so that every Filipino is accounted for,” he said.

Senator Risa Hontiveros, meanwhile, proposed an immediate 30-day temporary ban on individuals traveling from China as well as travelers who have passed through China in the past two weeks.

“Our travel ban must firmly include both air and sea travel to prevent a local outbreak. This includes a temporary ban on all cruise ships from docking at any of our ports,” she said in a separate statement.

Hontiveros also urged the Bureau of Quarantine (BOQ) to implement mandatory quarantine on all those who have just arrived from China.

She also reminded the BOQ “to remain vigilant and to study the safety measures of our neighboring countries with confirmed cases of nCoV.”

She said the temporary travel ban would give time for the country’s health authorities to set in place all safeguards necessary in case there are more confirmation of the virus presence in the Philippines from those who are still under present surveillance.

“I also call on our public health units, especially our barangay health centers, to engage in active community surveillance,” she added.

She also appealed to the government “to extend full assistance” to OFWs in China or in any countries with confirmed cases of nCoV who are seeking repatriation in relation to possible exposure to the virus.

READ: 29 patients now being monitored for possible new coronavirus infection

On the other hand, Senator Sherwin Gatchalian said that the government should “seriously consider” as an option the imposition of a ban on travelers from China.

“I think it’s about time to consider that, so seriously consider it. Itong case na ito kasi is a Chinese coming to our country. And I know for a fact that there are still flights (from China) coming to Cebu, Davao, Kalibo, and Manila, so we have to seriously consider a preemptive action and this action is a complete travel ban,” he said in an interview.

“I’m not saying we should do it now but it should be part of the options that we should be seriously considering,” he added.

Prior to the DOH’s confirmation of the first case of nCoV in the country, Senators Francis Pangilinan and Ralph Recto have already called for a travel ban.