Man Utd offered Odion Ighalo loan deal in last-minute transfer 
 Ighalo joined Shanghai Shenhua from Watford (Picture: Getty)
Manchester United have been offered the chance to sign Odion Ighalo on loan, according to reports.
The former Watford striker is currently on the books at Shanghai Shenhua, but the start of the Chinese Super League has been suspended amid a developing coronavirus crisis in China.
The Mirror claim Ighalo is on his way back to Europe and is keen to secure a last-minute transfer.
United have been on the hunt for a frontman this month after failing to replace Romelu Lukaku during the summer.
Ighalo was once linked with a move to United when he was still at Watford and Ole Gunnar Solskjaer could be tempted by a short-term solution to his goalscoring problems.
Marcus Rashford is currently out injured and Ighalo has continued to score goals while in China, grabbing ten in 19 appearances for Shanghai Shenhua.
Ighalo has been in excellent form in China (Picture: Getty)
United have been linked with a host of forwards this month, including Leicester City’s Islam Slimani, who is keen to return from his loan deal at Monaco.
The Red Devils are on the verge of announcing their first signing of January, with Bruno Fernandes poised to join the club.
United announced on Wednesday they had agreed a deal with Sporting Lisbon to sign the playmaker.
More: FootballMan Utd offered Odion Ighalo loan deal in last-minute transferMinistry of Defence insider reveals contents of Britain's 'final' UFO X-FilesJudd Trump aiming at 1,500 centuries to blast Ronnie O'Sullivan record out of the water
Fernandes is set to sign a long-term deal and is expected to go straight into the side due to injuries to Scott McTominay and Paul Pogba.
Solskjaer has a host of injury headaches to deal with and the addition of Ighalo or any striker is sure to ease concerns about a depleted squad.

			

								

				
					
					To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web
						browser that
						supports HTML5
							video
				
			
			
MORE: Bernardo Silva sends best wishes to ‘rival’ Bruno Fernandes after Manchester United confirm deal
MORE: Ole Gunnar Solskjaer explains why Fred took Manchester United’s crucial late free-kick over Juan Mata