Coronavirus Reaches All Chinese Regions As Infections Overtake SARS 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	Nearly 8,000 people have been infected by the novel coronavirus

AFP via Getty ImagesTopline: The coronavirus outbreak that began in the central Chinese city of Wuhan has now spread to all regions in the country, with at least 170 people dead and nearly 8,000 infected worldwide—mostly in China.
That means the illness, formally known as 2019-nCoV, has surpassed the number of SARS infections in China during the 2003 outbreak in which 5,327 people fell ill with the respiratory disease.
A case of the current pneumonia-like virus was reported in Tibet meaning all regions of China have been touched by it. All deaths from the disease have occurred in China, where the outbreak is concentrated.
A handful of cases are spread across 18 other countries in Europe, North America, Asia, Australasia and the Middle East with the first case in India confirmed on Thursday.
More airlines have cancelled flights to China. On Wednesday, Air Canada and KLM suspended flights to some Chinese cities, while British Airways cancelled flights to mainland China for a month.
Global markets are down as investors react to the fast-spreading illness. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index has fallen 6% this month, while Brent crude also hit a 2020 low, falling to $58.86 a barrel. 
Nearly 60 million people are now under lockdown across the worst affected cities in China. Russia closed its border with China to prevent the spread of the virus.

Evacuations in numbers:
Efforts to repatriate 200 U.K. citizens from Wuhan have been delayed. The Chinese government is not letting its citizens leave the country, a move which is threatening to split families.
The U.S has successfully airlifted 200 citizens to the U.S. who are being voluntarily quarantined for three days at March Air base in Riverside, California. 
Australia will attempt to airlift around 600 of its citizens. The government has planned to quarantine all those returning from Wuhan, particularly vulnerable citizens, on the remote Christmas Island near Indonesia.
Japan also evacuated 400 citizens, with a handful testing positive for the virus. The government has advised returnees to quarantine themselves at home.
The EU, South Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines and Canada are all planning to evacuate their citizens in Wuhan in the coming days.

What to watch for: The World Health Organization will decide whether to declare a global health emergency on Thursday, while Hong Kong will enforce a ban on high speed rail and ferry travel to and from mainland China from Thursday. 
Additional fact: More businesses are shuttering stores in China. Ikea has temporarily closed its 30 sites in the mainland, in addition to Starbucks, McDonalds, KFC and Pizza Hut, while employees of Amazon and Facebook in China have been told to work from home. Many provinces have advised non essential businesses to remain closed until the week after next, while the Lunar New Year holiday ends this Sunday. Ongoing travel and lockdown restrictions are likely to hamper a return to normal routines.
Key background: The first case of 2019-nCoV was reported in December. Chinese authorities say the disease broke out in a seafood market in Wuhan and was transmitted from an animal, and its is now being transmitted between humans. The disease remains a mystery to health experts, but is spread through droplets from coughing and sneezing. Symptoms range from coughing and sneezing, to pneumonia and kidney failure on the severe end, while the incubation period is up to 14 days. This week, Australian scientists created the virus in a lab, which could be used to speed up the development of a vaccine, and develop a better understanding of the virus.