Delta reduces U.S. flights to China 
 Delta says it is temporarily reducing its number of weekly flights between the U.S. and China due to "significantly reduced customer demand prompted by global health concerns related to coronavirus."


The airline said in order to maintain options for customers it will continue to operate from all current U.S.-China gateways. 


            
            
        Delta, the largest airline at Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport, operates 42 weekly flights between the U.S. and China, including daily service connecting Beijing and Detroit and Seattle, and Shanghai and Atlanta, Detroit, Los Angeles and Seattle. Starting Feb. 1, the airline will reduce this schedule to approximately 21 weekly flights, offering three to four weekly flights on the same routes.


"Delta will continue to monitor the situation and may make additional adjustments as the situation continues to evolve," the airline said in a news release. "Beginning Feb. 1, the Delta team will proactively reach out to take care of customers whose itineraries are affected and will accommodate them on alternate flights."


Delta said it continues to offer a change fee waiver for customers who wish to adjust their travel plans for U.S.-China flights.


Chicago-based United Airlines on Tuesday became the first major carrier to cancel flights between the U.S, and China. A spokesperson for the carrier said the decision to suspend the flights was based on “a significant decline in demand for travel to China," Courier sister publication Chicago Business Journal reported. American Airlines on Wednesday canceled flights between Los Angeles and Beijing and Shanghai, CNBC reported. American will continue its service to China from Dallas/Ft. Worth, and it will continue service to Hong Kong from Los Angeles. 


The CDC has issued a Level 3 warning in response to the coronavirus outbreak, advising travelers to avoid any nonessential travel to China. The agency also has implemented its "ill traveler response capacity" at all 20 airport quarantine stations in the U.S. 


As part of the response capacity, Customs and Border Protection identifies all travelers from affected areas and provides them with the CDC’s "travel health alert notice." The notice is intended to educate those travelers on what to do if they get sick with certain symptoms within 14 days after arriving to the United States. CBP officials also will refer ill travelers with symptoms specific to novel coronavirus and a connection to China to CDC staff at the airport for evaluation.


"This strategy allows CDC to focus efforts on the rapid detection, isolation, and contact tracing of cases that are identified in the United States," a CDC spokesperson said. "Being aware of people who are sick with this novel coronavirus, alerting travelers who may develop symptoms after arrival, and rapidly responding to any suspect 2019-nCoV [coronavirus] illness will help CDC to more effectively protect the health and safety of travelers and the American public."


The current coronavirus outbreak began earlier this month in Wuhan, China, and its rapid spread has revived global economic anxieties. Symptoms are flu like and include fever, cough and shortness of breath. Reported illnesses have ranged from people being mildly sick to people being severely ill and dying, according to the CDC.


So far, more than 6,000 cases of coronavirus have been confirmed and 130 people have died, mostly in China. In the U.S., there are five confirmed cases, with 73 tests pending, and no deaths. Two of the patients awaiting test results are students at Miami University.


While each confirmed U.S. case was imported, the CDC warns of person-to-person spread.


"This is a serious public health threat. The fact that this virus has caused severe illness and sustained person-to-person spread in China is concerning, but it’s unclear how the situation in the United States will unfold at this time," the agency said in its latest update. "The risk to individuals is dependent on exposure. At this time, some people will have an increased risk of infection, for example healthcare workers caring for 2019-nCoV patients and other close contacts. For the general American public, who are unlikely to be exposed to this virus, the immediate health risk from 2019-nCoV is considered low."