Logan Paul jokes about coronavirus as he poses with gas masks amid fears 
 Logan Paul has continued his rep as a controversial YouTuber by joking about the coronavirus amid fears.

No one’s really sure what to make of it.

The YouTuber posted a photo of himself shirtless, surrounded by Instagram models Katie Bell, Julia Rose, and Daisy Keech, and adult film star Riley Reid.

With all of them donning gas masks, Logan wrote: ‘F**k the corona virus’.

Coronavirus originated in the Chinese city of Wuhan, which has a population of 11 million people and is now quarantined.

China’s National Health Commission said 170 people have died and 7,711 have been infected by the new coronavirus in the country. Currently, there is no vaccine or cure for the virus as it will not respond to antibiotics.

Logan’s previously been known for crossing a line with his remarks, especially after his shocking suicide forest stunt in Japan in early 2018.

In January 2019, Logan claimed he was ‘going gay’ for a month on his podcast, facing criticism from the LGBT community and organisations such as GLAAD who pointed out that being gay isn’t a choice.

He later condemned his own ‘very poor choice of words’ and spoke on his podcast with LGBT activist Josh Seefried.

And, during the lead-up to his fight against KSI late last year, the YouTuber also made a comment about his opponent’s supposed history with abortion.

When host of the UK press conference, True Geordie, asked Logan what his rivalry with KSI meant at this point, he responded: ‘I might kill this man.’

He added: ‘Y’all may not know it but JJ’s on his fifth abortion. His fifth. That’s five babies dead.

‘And I think I might return the favour. And I might kill you. I might end you. I’mma light you on fire, bro,’ he added.

Despite later branding his own comment ‘horrific’, he stood by it and argued that it didn’t ‘warrant an apology’.

MORE: Logan Paul ‘dating Josie Canseco’ as she moves on from Brody Jenner split

MORE: Logan Paul squares up to footballer Antonio Brown after KSI loss: ‘I’d drop you faster than the Patriots’