Ask the Captain: A pilot answers your questions about flying amid coronavirus outbreak 
 My stepdad is very sick and in San Miguel de Allende, Mexico. I have flights booked to go on Feb. 9 (from New Zealand, Auckland to Houston, Texas and then travel by car to San Miguel de Allende with my mother) with my 10-week-old baby. I have heard about this coronavirus and it has me very scared. I am mainly scared about being on the plane with the circulating air conditioning system and that if someone on the plane has it, we would breathe in their air. I have bought 2 P2 face masks; however, those will be far too big for my baby. What do you think?

We did some research on the 2019-nCoV virus. This is the specific virus that is being referred to as the coronavirus. Corona is a family of viruses including the common cold.

The Centers for Disease Control says that transmission of the virus occurs by droplets from coughing or sneezing or direct contact. Air on airplanes is filtered through HEPA (High-Efficiency Particulate Air) filters which should trap any droplets. Another factor that works in your favor is that the fact that the air on planes is extremely dry, which is not conducive to the virus.

While the flight from New Zealand to Houston is long, you will be breathing filtered air that is changed frequently.

The CDC recommends frequent hand washing as the most effective way to prevent contracting a virus.

While the CDC does not discourage healthy people from wearing surgical masks as a  precaution, the agency is only recommending their use for patients thought to have the virus and the cabin crew and medical professionals who interact with them.

A pilot's perspective on coronavirus: Should you wear a surgical mask while flying?

These are the 20 U.S. airports screening for the coronavirus: Here's what it entails

How often are the interior air filters changed in international planes if they ever are changed?

Usually, the main HEPA filters are changed when the airplane is in maintenance, which is about once a month. This can vary from airplane type to airplane type and airline to airline.

I could not find exact intervals but based on talking with some maintenance personnel, this estimate appears to be accurate.

Precautions: How to stay healthy on a plane as coronavirus, flu, colds raise travel concerns

John Cox is a retired airline captain with US Airways and runs his own aviation safety consulting company, Safety Operating Systems.