6,000 passengers trapped on cruise ship as two are tested for deadly coronavirus 
 About 6,000 passengers are trapped on an Italian cruise ship after a woman fell ill with a suspected case of the deadly coronavirus.

The Costa Smeralda vessel is currently being held near Civitavecchia, 35 miles of Rome, after a Chinese woman, 54, began displaying symptoms of the virus which has killed 170 people and infected 7,711.

The woman and her husband – who is not believed to have symptoms – were immediately placed in solitary confinement and have been tested for the coronavirus, Corriere della Sera reports.

The individual, who has not been identified, is said to have contacted medics on board on Wednesday night, saying she had a temperature and was suffering respiratory problems.

The test results are due this afternoon, with the 6,000 other passengers banned from leaving the docked vessel until they come back.

The Costa Smeralda, which took its first journey in December, is currently on the last day of a cruise that began at Civitavecchia on January 23.

It has made stops at La Spezia, Savona, Marseilles, Barcelona, and Mallorca.

The ship was reportedly in the process of docking back at Civitavecchia when it was stopped.

The couple are believed to have boarded at Savona on January 25, having flown from Hong Kong to Milan’s international airport the same day.

The situation emerges as a chartered flight for British people stuck in Wuhan was postponed.

Brits were meant to leave on Thursday morning, but Chinese officials have reportedly not yet granted permission for the departure yet.

One British dad trapped at the epicentre of the coronavirus crisis says he may not be able to bring his unvaccinated newborn back to the UK.

Another citizen living at the centre of the deadly coronavirus outbreak is risking his life to stay with his Chinese wife after authorities refused to let her fly home with him.

The Russian Prime Minister has signed an order to close the country’s far east border with China, as concern over the spreading virus grows deeper.