Jamia firing live updates: Student injured as man opens fire in Jamia 
 As the students were set to start their march from Jamia Millia Islamia to Rajghat, the attacker took out a country-made .315 bore pistol and opened fire. The man, who goes by the name of Rambhakt Gopal on Facebook, has written several posts that he would 'end the protest' at Shaheen Bagh by January 31, reports IANS. .Amit Shah wants to disturb environment of Delhi, says AAP's Sanjay Singh .Protest continues near Jamia Millia Islamia University against #CAA and #NRC. (ANI) .Watch: Gun-wielding man opens fire at protesters in Jamia .Man who brandished a gun and opened fire in Jamia area has been identified as 19-year-old Ram Bhagat Gopal Sharma. He is a resident of Jewar area of Gautam Buddha Nagar district, ANI quotes Delhi Police sources. .The man who opened fire at people protesting near Jamia University had gone live on Facebook minutes before he drew out his gun. .CPI general secretary D Raja on Thursday said the incident of firing at Jamia Milia Islamia was a "direct result" of incretionary comments made by BJP leaders while campaigning for the Delhi assembly polls .Al-Ameen, a student, said the man was brandishing his pistol and shouted 'Yeh lo azaadi (Here, take your freedom)". .Jamia firing: The man, who is yet to be identified, was detained after he fired at students demonstrating against the Citizenship Amendment Act, police said. .Man brandishes gun in Jamia area of Delhi, detained by police .One positive case of Novel Coronavirus of a student from Wuhan University reported in Kerala: Health Ministry (PTI) .Nirbhaya case: Lawyer for death row convicts moves Delhi court seeking stay of execution scheduled for February 1. .Mumbai: Under-construction foot overbridge collapses on Ghatkopar-Mankhurd Link road; two injured. .Tamil Nadu: Trichy police arrest five persons including Mittai Babu from Chennai and Nagapattinam in connection with the murder of BJP functionary F Vijaya Raghu .Madhya Pradesh BJP MLA Manohar Untwal dies at Delhi hospital .Senior Congress leader and former Kerala minister M Kamalam passes away at the age of 94 in Kozhikode .Delhi woman quarantined in Ghaziabad, coronavirus test on A 27-year-old woman who returned from China recently has been put on quarantine by the health department, which has sent her blood samples to be tested for the Wuhan coronavirus. Read full story