Manila City: No Wuhan coronavirus case in local gov’t hospitals 
 MANILA, Philippines — The city government of Manila has assured its dwellers that no patient infected with the novel coronavirus or 2019-nCoV has so far been confined in a hospital operated by the local government.

This announcement came as the Department of Health confirmed on Thursday afternoon the country’s first case of the novel coronavirus, which emerged in Wuhan City, China. DOH said the 38-year-old Chinese tourist from Wuhan is being confined to a government hospital in Manila.

“Wala pa pong napabalita na pasyente na naitala sa ating mga pasilidad pangkalusugan. Sa atin naman sa Manila Health Department, we were assured na wala pa rin pong naitatala,” Manila Mayor Francisco “Isko Moreno” Domagoso said during a Facebook live on Thursday evening.

DOH Secretary Francisco Duque III said in a press conference earlier that the Chinese woman arrived in the Philippines on January 21 and confined in the hospital on January 25 due to mild cough.

Health authorities also said the Chinese tourist has traveled to Cebu and Dumaguete.

DOH said the patient “is currently asymptomatic.”

READ: DOH confirms first case of novel coronavirus in PH

Further, DOH said there are 29 patients under investigation for the 2019-nCoV, including 18 who are in Metro Manila.  One of those being observed, however, died Wednesday due to pneumonia although DOH explained that the patient also tested positive for HIV.

At the same time, Moreno said the local government unit would be distributing face masks to its public schools as it already delivered 100,000 masks to barangays.

“Wear face masks.  Katulad ng sinabi ko, medyo maswerte po tayo, kasi napaghandaan ng gobyerno.  Mayroon po kaming direktiba, sinabi na binigyan po ng direksyon, na city government to acquire the emergency purchase of face masks,” he added.

As of Thursday, January 30, 170 people have already died as there were at least 7,000 people in China who are infected with the novel coronavirus.