Coronavirus is so infectious it can be spread by touching surfaces 
 DEADLY coronavirus — which has killed at least 169 people — could spread by touching contaminated surfaces, experts warn.

Cases of the killer virus have tripled in just three days — with the strain infecting more people in China than SARS did.

Across the world, the ever-worsening outbreak has sent people into a frenzy affecting nearly 6,000 people across the world.

The warning comes as the death toll reaches 169, with experts fearing the outbreak could hit its peak in just 10 days.

Now, in a desperate bid to curb the spiralling epidemic, experts from the World Health Organisation (WHO) are warning that the virus can spread via objects or surfaces.

"There is evidence that the coronavirus can also be spread via fomites — when the virus survives on inanimate surfaces for a short period of time," said Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, a member of the WHO's emergency committee on the outbreak.

If the possibility becomes a certainty, it's a worrying revelation for hospital settings, where patients coming to be diagnosed and treated for coronavirus may touch chairs, tables, beds, railings and much more.

WHO officials are careful to note that it's "not yet clear" how contagious the new virus is, but its ability to be transferred from surfaces to people could speed its already alarming spread.

Experts estimate the virus has an incubation between two and 14 days — although a small subset of cases suggests that it may be transmissible even before symptoms begin.

During WHO's Wednesday press conference, they emphasised that it's "very difficult" to quantify how an infection spreads from asymptomatic patients to others.

Still, as the death toll climbs beyond 160 and cases surpass 6,000, it's a subject for further study and concern at the WHO and for public health experts.

Despite this additional indicator of pandemic potential, WHO has thus far declined to declare a public health emergency of international concern.

Instead, global health officials praised the containment efforts made by China, but warned the disease is to be taken seriously worldwide.

After originating from China last month, coronavirus has since spread to over 6,000 people in more than a dozen countries.