Will travel insurance cover you for trips to China affected by coronavirus? 
 The fatal coronavirus continues to spread, with 70 cases of the virus now confirmed outside of China.

Brits in Wuhan who show any symptoms of the virus will not be allowed to fly home as British and Chinese authorities work together to contain the virus.

When the 200 British citizens who are currently in Wuhan do get permission to leave, they will be quarantined for 14 days.

The government has advised against all travel to the Hubei Province and against all but essential travel to the rest of mainland China (not including Hong Kong and Macao).

So, if you’ve got a trip planned to China, does your travel insurance cover any cancellations? And is your insurance void if you travel to affected areas?

If you have booked your trip through a travel agent, it is advised you speak to them first to see whether or not you will be given the option of amending your booking or have the opportunity to get a refund.

Similarly, if you have booked flights yourself, the first port of call would be to contact your airline.

Some airlines such as British Airways have cancelled all flights to mainland China for the foreseeable future, offering passengers the choice to refund or rebook their flights.

Virgin Atlantic, Air China, China Eastern and Cathay Pacific are still flying but have given their customers similar options.

If you have accommodation booked, you should again speak to your hotel directly.

According to consumer website Travel Insurance Explained, there is no guarantee you will get a refund, though many may offer it as a ‘gesture of goodwill.’

They say: ‘Those with accommodation bookings that they are no longer able to use due to the cancellations will need to speak to their hotel directly. Most hotels and accommodation providers have strict cancellation policies but may offer to reimburse costs as a gesture of goodwill due to the circumstances.

‘It is worth noting, that this is not guaranteed and will vary between accommodation providers.’

If you cannot recuperate costs directly through your travel agent, airline or hotel, you may have to turn to your travel insurance.

Once again, there is no hard and fast rule and your level of cover will depend on what supplier you’re with, and the level of the policy you’ve taken out.

Some travel companies might cover for cancellations following the FCO’s warning against travelling to China – but there is no legal obligation.

If you still plan to travel to China, be aware that your travel insurance might cease to cover you, following the government’s warnings.

If in doubt, get in touch with your supplier.

MORE: People are searching ‘Corona beer virus’ after confusing lager with coronavirus