Cruise ship quarantined over coronavirus fears - 6,000 passengers stuck on board 
 The Coast Smeralda was placed on lockdown in the port of Civitavecchia when its captain told the harbourmaster and coast guard chiefs a husband and wife from Hong Kong were being held in isolation in the on-board hospital with flu-like symptoms such as high temperatures and breathing difficulties. Around 6,000 fellow passengers plus 1,000 crew members have been refused permission to leave ship.

Lazio Coast Guard's maritime director Vincenzo Leone said: "We are waiting to know the outcome of the checks still in progress, but everything that needed to be done has been done.
“The situation is under control and at the moment there is no reason for concern on board.
"We immediately activated the maritime health protocol envisaged in these cases."

Doctors from the Spallanzani hospital in Rome have boarded the ship to carry out some tests on the couple who joined the cruise at Savona a few days ago after arriving in Italy at Malpensa  on January 25.
The towering cruise liner sailed into Civitavecchia, a port city about 50 miles northwest of Rome, after spending the night docked in Palma, Majorca. It has also stopped in Marseille and Barcelona during its voyage around the western Mediterannean.
Civitavecchia’s mayor Ernesto Tedesco said: "The situation on the suspected case of coronavirus at the port of Civitavecchia is under the careful control of all the bodies involved, including the local authority.
“The health and maritime authorities have immediately taken action and the protocols envisaged are being followed and we will be constantly monitored.”
READ MORE: Coronavirus: Britons returning from Wuhan face two-week quarantine

China's National Health Commission said the total number of deaths from the coronavirus in the country had climbed to 170 and the number of those infected now stood at 7,711.
Almost all the deaths have been in the central province of Hubei, home to about 60 million people and now under virtual lockdown.
The virus emerged last month in a live wild animal market in the provincial capital of Wuhan.
DON'T  MISS
Coronavirus: Eerie images capture Beijing GHOST TOWN[PICTURES]
Coronavirus crisis: Evacuation flight diverted to US airbase [SPOTLIGHT]
Coronavirus: British Airways grounds all flights to China [FOCUS]

The World Health Organisation's Emergency Committee meeting today to decide if the outbreak constitutes a global emergency.
Infections have been reported in at least 16 other countries, with 105 confirmed cases, but no deaths from coronavirus have been reported outside China.

Cases of human-to-human transmission outside China are of particular concern to the WHO, but it is too early to determine how lethal the virus is as there are likely to be many cases of milder infections going undetected.
It has an incubation time of between one and 14 days and there are signs it may be able to spread before any symptoms show.
Chinese National Health Commission Minister Ma Xiaowei said the virus was infectious during incubation, unlike the SARS virus that emerged from China and killed about 800 people in 2002 and 2003.