Lassa Fever Death Toll Reaches 41 in Nigeria 
 A picture shows a warning and awareness banner for Lassa fever displayed at the Institute of Lassa Fever Research and Control in Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital in Irrua, Edo State, midwest Nigeria, on March 6, 2018.(Pius Utomi Ekpei/AFP via Getty Images)

The death toll from a Lassa fever outbreak in northern Nigeria has risen to 41, the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC) announced this week.

NCDC said there are now 258 confirmed cases of the infectious disease across 19 states in Nigeria, which is home to a total of 36 states.

The prominent age group of those affected is between 11 and 40 years old, they added.

NCDC said it had activated Emergency Operations Centers (EOC) across states in response to the outbreak and rapid response teams have been deployed to support response activities in five states.

The health institute said it is “working to support every state in Nigeria to identify one treatment center, while supporting existing ones with care, treatment, and IPC commodities.”

According to the World Health Organization, Lassa fever is “an acute viral haemorrhagic illness caused by Lassa virus, a member of the arenavirus family of viruses,” and was first identified in 1969 and named after the town in Nigeria where it was discovered.

Humans typically become infected by the virus through exposure to food or household items contaminated with urine or feces of infected Mastomys rats.

Mastomys rats breed frequently, produce large numbers of offspring, and are commonly found in the savannas and forests of west, central, and east Africa.

However, direct contact with infected rodents is not the only way in which people are infected as person-to-person transmission may occur after exposure to virus in the blood, tissue, secretions, or excretions of a Lassa virus-infected individual, the Centers For disease Control and Prevention notes.

Roughly 80 percent of people who become infected with Lassa virus have no symptoms and 1 in 5 infections result in severe disease, where the virus affects several organs such as the liver, spleen, and kidneys.

Signs and symptoms of Lassa fever typically occur between one and three weeks after the patient is exposed to the virus and for the majority (approximately 80 percent), symptoms are mild and go undiagnosed.

Individuals may suffer mild symptoms such as a slight fever, discomfort and weakness, and headaches, however, the disease can progress to more serious symptoms including haemorrhaging in the gums, eyes, or nose, respiratory issues, repeated vomiting, facial swelling, pain in the chest, back, and abdomen, and shock.

Loss of hearing, tremors, and encephalitis, an inflammation of the brain, can also occur, while death may occur two weeks after the systems begin due to multi-organ failure.

Approximately 15-20 percent of patients hospitalized for Lassa fever die from the illness. However, only 1 percent of all Lassa virus infections result in death. Women in the third trimester of pregnancy are at an increased risk of dying from the infection.

Lassa virus is an annually recurring viral disease and different to the current outbreak of coronavirus which was first diagnosed in the Chinese city of Wuhan in December last year.

An estimated 100,000 to 300,000 infections of Lassa fever occur annually, resulting in approximately 5,000 deaths, according to the CDC.

Lassa virus can be treated by the antiviral drug Ribavirin, however this is most effective when provided promptly after the patient becomes sick.

Preventative steps to avoid exposure to the virus include storing food away in rat-proof containers and keeping the home clean to discourage rats from entering. Health officials also advise not to eat the rats, which are sometimes consumed as a food source.