Coronavirus: Brits remain in China after officials refuse permission for flight to take off 
 Brits who were hoping to fly home from coronavirus-hit Wuhan remain in China after officials refused permission for their flight to take off.

The UK government had anticipated flying about 200 UK citizens out of the country, where the death toll has risen to 170, on Thursday but the flight has now been delayed.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "We are doing everything we can to get British people in Wuhan safely back to the UK. A number of countries' flights have been unable to take off as planned.

"We continue working urgently to organise a flight to the UK as soon as possible.

"We remain in close contact with the Chinese authorities and conversations are ongoing at all levels.”

The Government is still negotiating with Chinese authorities over the flight, which will not take off at all on Thursday.

Nick Gibb, the school standards minister, told Sky News: “There are some difficult issues that are being negotiated at very senior levels between the British government and the Chinese government.

“Our priority is to ensure the safety and welfare of British nationals in Wuhan and ensure they do return to the UK as soon as possible.”

Britons returning from Wuhan will be put in quarantine for 14 days.

Mr Gibb confirmed that the plane carrying the passengers from Wuhan will land at a military base in the UK before being taken to an “NHS facility”.

Downing Street said the Britons returning from Wuhan had agreed to be placed in "assisted isolation”. A source said: "We are expecting about 200 British nationals to be on board, there is capacity on the flight for everybody. "On arrival, passengers will be safely isolated for two weeks with all necessary medical attention.” Number 10 refused to confirm where the Britons would be taken following the civilian charter flight to airlift them from the region. Passengers arrive at Heathrow Airport in London after the last British Airways flight from China touched down in the UK (AP) The quarantine move comes after Britons returning to the UK expressed fury after being told they must "self-isolate" – while also making their own way home from the airport. Previous advice from Public Health England was for those returning to stay at home for 14 days. As a virologist, I can tell why you can stop panicking about the coronavirus China coronavirus: What are the symptoms, where has it spread and is there treatment? But Britons due to board the flight back from Wuhan said they had been told by authorities to make their own way through the city to Wuhan airport, and once they land on British soil they are expected to make their own way home, potentially coming into contact with hundreds of people on the way. Experts in China have said there is evidence that people could transmit the virus without showing any symptoms, although UK experts think the risk is low. A family seen wearing protective masks as they walk around Changi Airport in Singapore (SOPA Images/Sipa USA) Kharn Lambert, whose grandmother Veronica Theobald, 81, from Lancaster, is booked on a flight that was due to be leaving Wuhan on Thursday, told the PA news agency: "We are not sure what time the flight will leave yet. She got a seat almost straight away because of her condition. "She is relieved, so am I, but she's frustrated with the restrictions being put in place. She can only take 15kg of hand luggage and she came here with about 30kg of stuff.” Mr Lambert has decided not to return, and will stay in Wuhan, but said his grandmother had been told previously she would have to get from London to Lancaster on her own. A Chinese volunteer wearing the protective clothing disinfects a street for prevention of coronavirus (Costfoto/Sipa USA) The Foreign Office updated its advice on Tuesday to warn against all but essential travel to mainland China, saying it may become more difficult for British nationals in other provinces to leave. On Wednesday, British Airways announced it was suspending all flights to and from mainland China with immediate effect. The cancellations will be in place for a month until 19 February. Virgin Atlantic said its flights between Heathrow and Shanghai will continue to operate as scheduled, although passengers are able to rebook or obtain a refund free of charge. Chinese airlines which serve UK airports such as Heathrow, Gatwick and Manchester – including Air China, China Southern Airlines, China Eastern Airlines, Hainan Airlines and Tianjin Airlines – all appear to be operating flights as normal. A Chinese worker wearing protective clothing checks passenger's body temperatures for prevention of coronavirus at the exit of Nanjing Railway Station (Costfoto/Sipa USA) The death toll in China from coronavirus has risen to 170, with confirmed infections surging to 7,711. Of the new deaths, 37 were in the epicentre of the outbreak in Hubei province, with one in the south-western province of Sichuan. Four cases have been confirmed in Germany, making it the second European country to report cases after France. The World Health Organisation said the latest indications are that one in five cases of coronavirus are leading to severe disease, such as pneumonia, or were causing death. The Department of Health and Social Care said on Wednesday that 130 people in the UK had been given the all-clear for the virus, although scientists predict it may have already entered the country.