PG Tips and Lipton Tea poised for sale as young people switch to coffee 
 Unilever is considering selling its €3bn global tea business, which includes PG Tips and Lipton, after battling declining sales of traditional black tea for several years.

The traditional cuppa has fallen out of favour in western markets such as the UK and US, particularly among younger people, who are more likely to drink coffee. Those who still drink tea prefer herbal, fruit and decaffeinated brews as part of the trend towards healthy eating and drinking.

Black tea remains Britain’s favourite hot drink but the number of cups of tea brewed fell by 630m to 18.3bn in the year to February 2019, according to research firm Kantar.

PG Tips has long been the market leader in the UK but was overtaken by Twinings, owned by Associated British Foods, for the first time last year. It was launched in 1930 by Brooke Bond and Company, a Manchester firm founded by the tea dealer Arthur Brooke, under the name “Pre-Gest Tea”, later becoming PG Tips. In 1960, it introduced tea bags which soon outsold loose leaf tea. The brand had annual sales of nearly £100m in the UK last year and is still made in Manchester.

Unilever’s tea business is the biggest in the world, with brands such as Brooke Bond, Bushells, Lyons, Pure Leaf and Pukka. Graeme Pitkethly, Unilever’s chief financial officer, said the company was considering all options for the tea division, including a total or partial sale and partnerships.

The group has invested in premium black tea along with fruit and herbal variants. It said its herbal brand Pukka was performing well. It operates in almost 60 countries and has an annual turnover of nearly €3bn.

Pitkethly said the tea business was similar in scale to the spreads business, which makes Flora and I Can’t Believe It’s Not Butter and was sold by Unilever in 2017 to private equity firm KKR for €6.8bn. He said consumer goods companies must continually change their portfolios in response to changing consumer tastes.

Neil Wilson, chief market analyst at trading platform Markets.com, said: “Surely the move to ever-greater coffee consumption in the west has been a drag on tea sales as we swap out our cup of Assam for giant mugs of Arabica. It comes not long after the disposal of the spreads business which similarly fell prey to changing consumer trends in developed markets.”

Unilever, the company behind other household names such as Marmite, Magnum and Knorr, revealed its pre-tax profits fell by a third to €8.3bn last year, after a sales slowdown in the fourth quarter. Underlying sales rose 2.9%, below the company’s 3%-5% target. In the fourth quarter growth slowed to 1.5%, the weakest pace in a decade.

Pitkethly said Unilever had held board meetings in the last two days to discuss the impact of the coronavirus outbreak in China, which could be significant for global manufacturing, he said.