Victoria's third coronavirus case confirmed, bringing national total to nine 
 Victoria's health authorities have confirmed a visitor from Hubei province in China as the third case of coronavirus in the state, as the national total rises to nine.

The woman in her 40s is in a stable condition in isolation at the Royal Melbourne Hospital, a statement from Victoria's Department of Health and Human Services said.

She tested positive for the virus today.

"The woman attended a GP and was referred to the hospital immediately," the statement said.

"Two close contacts are being provided support and education and monitored closely for symptoms of illness.

"Further information on public exposure sites will be made available once confirmed."

There are currently eight suspected cases in Victoria pending test results and a total of 71 negative results.

The announcement comes as Queensland health authorities confirm that state's second case. Four cases have been confirmed in NSW.

Queensland's chief health officer Jeannette Young said in a statement on Thursday evening a 42-year-old Chinese woman from Wuhan had tested positive to the virus.

Dr Young said the woman was a member of the tour group travelling with the 44-year-old man who was Queensland's first confirmed case yesterday.

The group was on Tigerair Australia flight TT566 on January 27 from Melbourne to the Gold Coast when the man first started showing symptoms.

The Victorian Department of Health and Human Services statement said they were working closely with Commonwealth and Queensland health authorities to determine if there are were public exposure sites in Melbourne related to that case.

"All close contacts of the case have been identified and contacted," the statement said.

"The patient was not symptomatic whilst in Melbourne, however, given recent evidence regarding potential of transmission in the 48 hours prior to symptom onset a precautionary approach is being undertaken.

"Further updates will be provided when information is available."

The Victorian Department of Health and Human Services has established a Coronavirus hotline on 1800 675 398.

National and state health authorities now recommend that anyone who has travelled in China's Hubei province self-isolate for 14 days after leaving the province, other than when seeking individual medical care.

People who have recently travelled in other parts of China or other countries are not being asked to self-isolate at this time.

Anyone who develops symptoms of fever and breathing difficulty or cough or who have had direct contact with a confirmed case should seek medical help immediately.

Before visiting a GP or emergency department, they are advised to call ahead to advise about recent travel and symptoms.