China's Richest Man Jack Ma Gives Rs 100 Crores For Wuhan Coronavirus Vaccine Research 
 The situation of the Wuhan Coronavirus in China is getting worse every second, affecting over 4000 people and claiming over 130 lives. And while the authorities are trying their best to take control of the situation, they’re actually far from it, with the disease spreading to other parts of the globe too.
 Reuters
Jack Ma, the founder of the largest e-commerce platform Alibaba in China (who also is the richest man in China), has contributed $14 million (which is approximately Rs 100 crores) to develop a vaccine for fighting the deadly Wuhan coronavirus.
Done through Jack ma’s charitable trust, from the total amount, $5.8 million will be given to research institutes led by the Chinese government with the remaining amount being contributed to prevent and treat the novel coronavirus.
In case you were unaware, there is no medicine or vaccine as such to cure someone of this virus. The virus causes severe pneumonia-like symptoms with many also experiencing severe breathing issues. Doctors, however, prescribe regular flu and pain medication to ease the symptoms till it gradually moves out of the body.
Reports have indicated that leading pharmaceuticals brand Johnsons  Johnsons is confident to find a vaccine for the disease. In a statement to CNBC, they revealed that dozens of their scientists are currently working to find a solution to this conundrum. They are confident that the vaccine will not only be effective but also last long. However, the vaccine will take around a year to fully develop and enter the market.

 
Recently, an Indian Siddha Doctor claimed that his ayurvedic medicine can help in eliminating the virus within two days stating, "We have formulated a medicine from an extract of herbs. It is very effective to cure any type of viral fever. Our herbal extract medicine is used to treat dengue, multi-organ fever and acute liver fever. In coronavirus too I am confident our medicine will be very effective."