Five people tested for coronavirus in Sask., no confirmed cases: chief medical officer 
 The risk of Saskatchewan residents catching the coronavirus remains low, according to the province’s chief medical officer.
“If you are a person on the street and have not travelled, you should not be concerned,” said Dr. Saqib Shahab, as there are no direct flights from Saskatchewan to China.
	
	Since the outbreak, locals have been self-reporting any travelling they’ve done to China to Saskatchewan Public Health.
“The HealthLine has been receiving calls frequently from travellers,” Shahab said. “If a traveller came from China and was symptomatic, they are assessed by Public Health and proper testing is ordered.”
According to Shahab, five people in Saskatchewan have been tested for the coronavirus.
“One result was negative and we’re waiting for results from four of them,” Shahab said.
									Story continues below advertisement

			
			
			
			


					
		
	He said most tests being done across Canada are coming back negative. If someone is showing symptoms – like fever, cough and breathing difficulties – it is likely the result of a common cold or the flu, Shahab said.
							    	
				
					
						
												
							
																
								
							
							
																	2:50
																									Here’s what we know about the new coronavirus
															
						
											
				

			

					
				Here’s what we know about the new coronavirus
			
							
While Saskatchewan residents don’t need to be concerned about catching the coronavirus, they should remain vigilant to where they’re getting their information from. Any updates on confirmed cases in Saskatchewan will be published on a government website, Shahab said.
“Social media is a great gift for staying in touch with friends and family but obviously one has to weigh carefully the information that’s out there especially when it relates to your wellbeing,” Shahab said.
“All of us need to be aware of that and focus on going to credible websites like the Ministry of Health or Public Health, specifically for information on health issues.”
Anyone who develops flu-like symptoms after travelling is asked to stay in their home and call the health line at 811 to be further assessed.
							    	
				
					
						
												
							
																
								
							
							
																	1:56
																									Coronavirus 101: lowering your risk with preparation and prevention
															
						
											
				

			

					
				Coronavirus 101: lowering your risk with preparation and prevention
			
							
						

					
					
						
							© 2020 Global News, a division of Corus Entertainment Inc.