Window Seat Is Safest To Avoid Catching Coronavirus On Flight, Here’s Why 
 The Wuhan Coronavirus has spread around the world like wildfire -- so much so that various airlines are suspending flights to China to stop the spreading of this disease globally. Airport gates are installed with thermal scanners to filter sick passengers and prevent the spreading of the disease.
 Reuters
At times like this, it’s preferred to stay in your country and refrain travelling anywhere. However, not all have the luxury of staying in their countries due to work or some other emergency.
And in case you’re taking a flight, make sure you book a window seat to save yourself from catching the coronavirus -- as that’s the safest step for you.
This is according to experts from Emory University. They tried to understand how viruses can spread from within an aircraft with respect to the movement of passengers in it, and they were able to find that people in the aisle seats are more prone to coming in contact with infected passengers as opposed to the ones on the window seat.
  Reuters
 This is because the more a person walks around the aircraft, the more chances he/she has of coming in contact with the infected passenger. People on the aisle seat are not only the ones that can be exposed to infected passengers, but they’re also the ones who end up taking a walk in long flights, because of the ease of access.   

People on the window, on the other hand, don’t really get up unless they really want to -- since most don’t want to bother other passengers in the row.

Researchers found 38 per cent left their seats once and 24 per cent more than once, but passengers by the window barely left their seat at all. 
They further state that sitting in the aisle doesn’t mean that they’re bound to get infected as most people will move along quickly. Overall the chances of getting infected on an aircraft are pretty low. 
 AFP
Chances of contracting the virus definitely spike if the passenger right next to you has it. Moreover, the virus has a 14-day incubation period so people might be sick and spreading the virus long before the symptoms actually starts showing.

In any case, it is strongly advised that you keep your mouth and nose covered at all times, prevent touching nose, eyes or mouth without sanitising or washing hands.