Russia blocks off border with virus-hit China 
 Russia will shut down its vast 4300-kilometre border with China and no longer issue electronic visas to Chinese nationals in an extraordinary bid to stop the spread of the deadly coronavirus.
“We have to do everything to protect our people,” Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin told a government meeting on Thursday.
Russia currently does not have any confirmed cases of the new virus, but has set up a task force to prevent its possible spread.
The foreign ministry has advised Russians not to travel to China, and asked those already in the country to get in touch with the Russian embassy.
The coronavirus has infected more than 7700 people and killed 170, mostly in China, since it was first detected in Wuhan, a city of 11 million people, in December.
Cases have been confirmed as far away as Canada and Germany, with a ninth person diagnosed with the disease in Australia on Thursday.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) said it would meet again on Thursday to decide whether the outbreak should be declared a global emergency. It will be the third time the organisation has met to debate the issue.
RELATED: Second person diagnosed with virus in Queensland
RELATED: Follow updates on coronavirus
“The continued increase in cases and the evidence of human-to-human transmission outside China are of course both deeply concerning,” Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Wednesday.
“The numbers outside China are still relatively small (but) hold the potential for a much larger outbreak.”
Several countries have already begun evacuating their citizens from China’s worst-hit Hubei province.
The United States evacuated 195 Americans from Wuhan on Thursday, while France, New Zealand, India and Singapore are also trying to fly their citizens out.
The Australian government is currently negotiating with Chinese officials to evacuate some 600 Australians locked down in Wuhan.
The plan is to fly the evacuees from China to Christmas Island, where they’ll then be required to spend a fortnight in quarantine.
But Britain has reportedly not yet received permission from Chinese officials to bring its citizens home.
A flight scheduled to bring about 200 British nationals back to the UK on Thursday was unable to take off, and evacuees were told they’d have to wait until Friday, according to the BBC.
The coronavirus has an incubation time of between one and 14 days and there are signs it may be able to spread before any symptoms show.
It has now infected more people in China than were sickened there during the 2002-2003 outbreak of SARS - which is another type of coronavirus.
Streets in many Chinese cities are largely deserted and tourist attractions are shut.
-With wires