DC mayor endorses Michael Bloomberg 
 Washington, D.C., mayor Muriel Bowser (D) on Thursday announced she is endorsing former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg Michael Rubens BloombergWarren gets endorsements from 45 Michigan officeholders, activists Poll: Most Democratic voters say billionaires are out of touch with average American The Hill's 12:30 Report: Impeachment trial moves to senators' questions MORE for president, declaring that he is the only Democratic presidential candidate that can "unify" the country to defeat President Trump Donald John TrumpDemocrats outraged over White House lawyer's claim that some foreign involvement in elections is acceptable Senators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session White House announces task force to monitor coronavirus MORE.

"We can resolve our most pressing problems if we have the right leader to turn innovative ideas into reality," Bowser said in a tweet early Thursday morning. "Bloomberg is a problem-solver with a proven track record of getting things done. He’s a mentor & friend & I’m proud to endorse him for president."

Bowser added that she will appear alongside Bloomberg at the Atlas Performing Arts Center in Washington, D.C., on Thursday afternoon, where she will detail why she's putting her support behind him. She is set to become a national co-campaign chair for Bloomberg's team.

Bloomberg launched a White House bid in November and his since spent more than $200 million on advertising for his campaign. The billionaire businessman has flooded the airwaves and social media with ads, and he has hired roughly 800 staffers throughout the country.

The former mayor is not competing in early voting states such as Iowa and New Hampshire and instead focusing specifically on Super Tuesday states.

His standing in the 2020 Democratic primary field appears to be rising. A Morning Consult poll released on Tuesday showed that Bloomberg, the founder of Bloomberg LP, reached double figures in support. Twelve percent of Democratic primary voters said they would support Bloomberg, putting him ahead of former South Bend, Ind., mayor Pete Buttigieg Peter (Pete) Paul ButtigiegSanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Overnight Health Care — Presented by Philip Morris International — Dems warn Trump against Medicaid block grants | Sanders under pressure on how to pay for 'Medicare for All' | China to allow in US health officials to study coronavirus MORE and Sen. Amy Klobuchar Amy Jean KlobucharWarren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Minneapolis NAACP, Black Lives Matter call on Klobuchar to suspend campaign Live coverage: Senators query impeachment managers, Trump defense MORE (D-Minn.).

He remains far behind former Vice President Joe Biden Joe BidenSenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session Sanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial MORE and Sen. Bernie Sanders Bernie SandersSanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Weld bets on New Hampshire to fuel long shot bid against Trump MORE (I-Vt.), who have emerged as the frontrunners in the race.

Bowser is among more than two dozen current and former mayors to place their support behind Bloomberg, The Washington Post noted. Bowser's endorsement follows one last week from San Francisco mayor London Breed (D).

“He has the ability to beat Donald Trump this November, and that is of the most concern to me," Breed told the San Francisco Chronicle.