Christmas Island prepares for evacuees amid coronavirus spread 
 A series of hospital beds set up in a portable building is what will greet hundreds of Australians when they are evacuated from the coronavirus 'ground zero' to Christmas Island.

About 600 Australians are trapped in Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak that has killed 170 Chinese people and infected more than 7,000.

On Wednesday the Australian Federal Government announced a plan to evacuate those stranded on a Qantas jet to the island, which sits 1,650 kilometres off the coast of Western Australia.

On Thursday night, authorities were preparing the detention centre as the government awaits approval from the China to implement its plan.

A garden area has been set up along with a indoor gym, equipped with an array of exercise machines.

Demountables have also been built to house a hospital where several beds had been set up.

The hospital will also hold diagnostic and protective equipment and negative pressure facilities.

Once the evacuees arrive in Christmas Island, they will spend 14 days there in quarantine.

They will then be re-directed to Perth before having to make their own way home.

On Thursday evacuees were told they would need to pay $1,000 before they could leave Wuhan.

'People have to pay for the flight from China back to Australia. That's, as I'm advised by DFAT, the normal way in which these things occur and that will be the limit of the contribution,' Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton said on Thursday.

A 24-strong team of medical professionals are also bound for Christmas Island.

The executive director of the National Critical Care and Trauma Response Centre, Professor Len Notaras said the doctors, nurses and allied health officials being sent to the island were of the 'highest calibre' and were being drawn from every state and territory.

Prof Notaras told reporters in Darwin it was important to note those people who will be placed in isolation were not sick at this stage.

He said they would not be held in detention, although their movements would be restricted.

Anyone who became critically ill would likely be repatriated to Australia, possibly to Western Australia or to a hospital close to where they live, Prof Notaras said.

Health Minister Greg Hunt said Australia's actions were driven by medical advice, and the World Health Organisation was strong in its support for quarantine measures to stem the spread of the virus.

'Our job is to protect Australians and provide support for citizens overseas and the best way to do that is to find a place which was designed to deal with people who were coming (from) overseas ... and to do that in a way which is humane,' Mr Hunt said.

Mr Dutton defended the Christmas Island plan, saying it would help keep Australia safe.

'I can't clear a hospital in Sydney or Melbourne to accommodate 600 people. We don't have a facility otherwise that can take this number of people,' he told the Nine Network on Thursday.

Christmas Island administrator Natasha Griggs said residents had expressed some concerns but had been assured that all necessary measures had been put in place to ensure the safety of locals.

'By and large, the Christmas Island residents understand that this is a humanitarian mission and they're generally supportive,' she said.

'We've got a fantastic team of people that have got experience in doing this, a track record of success so the residents of Christmas Island have no need to worry.'

But Australian Medical Association boss Tony Bartone said there were better alternatives to sending evacuees to Christmas Island, with some medical specialists suggesting the Woodside army barracks near Adelaide and another facility just north of Katherine in the NT.

Within Australia, there are nine confirmed cases of people with the deadly disease.

There are four people in NSW, three in Victoria and two in Queensland.

Two Australians in China's Wuhan province have also been diagnosed.