Poll finds Sanders faring best against Trump in Texas 
 Sen. Bernie Sanders Bernie SandersSanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Weld bets on New Hampshire to fuel long shot bid against Trump MORE (I-Vt.) fares best against President Trump Donald John TrumpDemocrats outraged over White House lawyer's claim that some foreign involvement in elections is acceptable Senators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session White House announces task force to monitor coronavirus MORE in a head-to-head matchup in Texas, according to a new poll released Wednesday by Texas Luyceum.

Sanders still got less support than Trump in the poll, but he did win 47 percent compared to Trump’s 50 percent, a result within the poll's margin of error.

Just behind was former Vice President Joe Biden Joe BidenSenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session Sanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial MORE, who won 46 percent to Trump’s 51 percent.

Sen. Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth Ann WarrenSanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Weld bets on New Hampshire to fuel long shot bid against Trump MORE (D-Mass.) won 44 percent in the Texas poll compared to 52 percent for Trump, while former South Bend, Ind. Mayor Pete Buttigieg Peter (Pete) Paul ButtigiegSanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Overnight Health Care — Presented by Philip Morris International — Dems warn Trump against Medicaid block grants | Sanders under pressure on how to pay for 'Medicare for All' | China to allow in US health officials to study coronavirus MORE won 43 percent compared to Trump's 51 percent.

The same poll found Biden and Sanders neck and neck among Texas Democrats, with 28 percent preferring Biden and 26 percent preferring Sanders, followed by 13 percent for Warren, 9 percent for former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Michael Rubens BloombergWarren gets endorsements from 45 Michigan officeholders, activists Poll: Most Democratic voters say billionaires are out of touch with average American The Hill's 12:30 Report: Impeachment trial moves to senators' questions MORE, Buttigieg with 6 percent and Sen. Amy Klobuchar Amy Jean KlobucharWarren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Minneapolis NAACP, Black Lives Matter call on Klobuchar to suspend campaign Live coverage: Senators query impeachment managers, Trump defense MORE (D-Minn.) with 4 percent.

Sanders’ strength in the state is largely due to enthusiasm among younger and independent voters, Josh Blank, Texas Lyceum’s research director, told the Austin American-Statesman.

“When we look at the Democratic nominating contest, Sanders was far and away the choice of voters under 30 — 57% selected Sanders,” he said. “That’s also confirmed in the head-to-head matchups with President Trump. So, while the other three Democrats tested — Biden, Warren and Buttigieg — split that vote about 60-40 in their favor, Sanders beats Trump 70 to 30 among voters 18 to 29 years old.”

Independent voters are also a strength for Sanders in Texas, Blank said. He was the only one of the four candidates to beat Trump among independents.

“[W]hile all three Democrats, aside from Sanders, lost independents to Trump in this poll, basically 60 to 30 or so with the rest of them unsure, Sanders is actually ahead of Trump with independents, 44 to 41,” he added.

Pollsters surveyed 1,000 adult citizens in Texas, including 401 Democratic primary voters and 520 likely general election voters, between Jan. 10 and Jan. 19. The poll has a 4.89-point margin of error for the primary voters and a 4.3-point margin of error for likely general election voters.