Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross says China’s coronavirus ‘will help’ bring jobs back to U.S. 
 “I think it will help to accelerate the return of jobs to North America, some to [the] U.S., probably some to Mexico as well,” Ross said. The White House has been pressuring companies in China to move operations to the United States. President Trump recently signed a partial trade deal with China meant to create new incentives for U.S. companies. 

White House officials so far have been careful in how they’ve talked about the economic implications of the health scare in China, and President Trump has gone out of his way to praise Chinese leader Xi Jinping. 

But Ross has a history of breaking with the White House’s messaging. During the shutdown last year, when the White House was under extreme pressure because some federal workers were going to food banks, Ross suggested they consider taking out loans from credit unions in order to pay their bills.

The total number of people infected in mainland China has surpassed those infected with SARS, and about 100 cases have been recorded elsewhere around the world. Global businesses — from Starbucks to airlines to automakers — are increasingly shutting down their operations across China, and with an official lockdown affecting more than 50 million people, consumer spending has plunged. 

Many factories have extended their customary closure beyond the end of the Lunar New Year celebration this week into at least the second week of February. Some of Apple’s Chinese suppliers are slated to stay closed until Feb. 10. And executives are concerned that the virus could spark broader economic consequences, both within China and elsewhere, the longer the public health crisis persists. 

Still, Federal Reserve Board Chair Jerome H. Powell on Tuesday said he was “not going to speculate about it at this point.”

“The situation is really in its early stages. It’s very uncertain about how far it will spread and what the macroeconomic effects will be,” Powell told reporters.