Four late deals Man Utd chief Ed Woodward could sign off before transfer deadline 
 Manchester United could still be active in the next 24 hours as they look to sign a striker and another midfielder to bolster their ranks. Express Sport looks at four deals that could still happen after the announcement of Bruno Fernandes.

Odion Ighalo
The Nigerian is on his way back to Europe after leaving China due to the Coronavirus, which has suspended Chinese Super League action.
Ighalo currently plays for Shanghai Shenhua and wants to join a club on loan.
United have been offered the chance to sign the former Watford man until the end of the season.
He is 30 years old and has scored goals in the Premier League before.
JUST IN: Bruno Fernandes arrives at Carrington for medical to finalise Man Utd transfer

Vedat Muriqi
Turkish reports have linked United with an audacious bid for Vedat Muriqi.
The Kosovan international was a real handful against England in the European Championship qualifiers.
He has a prolific goalscoring record in Turkey, which saw him land a move to Fenerbahce last year.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said he wants a striker that will break his nose and toes to score goals, 6ft 4in Muriqi could be the man to do just that.
DON'T MISS
Four last-minute deals on Man Utd agenda after completing Bruno Fernandes transfer
Man Utd scouts drool over Maxi Gomez after Ole Gunnar Solskjaer transfer assignment
Man Utd fans go wild as mystery man 'arrives for medical' ahead of transfer deadline day

Islam Slimani
There appears to be a strong link to Islam Slimani, with a striker remaining United’s priority before the deadline.
The deal is complicated though with Slimani currently on loan at Monaco from Leicester.
It would mean Monaco are paid a small figure to let him return to England.
Aston Villa and Tottenham are also interested but it appears a difficult arrangement to untangle in such a short amount of time.

Marcos Llorente
The Spaniard is on United’s radar with a loan deal being eyed for the Atletico Madrid man.
He is currently out of favour under Diego Simeone, who could be persuaded to let him leave for the second half of the campaign.
The arrival of Fernandes is one player secured from United’s checklist, but they still require a deeper-lying midfielder who can play box-to-box.
Atletico need to raise funds to secure the signing of Edinson Cavani and letting Llorente leave could free up the books.