Tesla Conference Call Warns Of Increased Expenses In 2020, Seasonal And Coronavirus Headwinds 
 After "beating" expectations handily but still finishing 2019 off with GAAP net income losses exceeding $800 million, Tesla took a relatively lengthy victory lap on their conference call yesterday, which started around 6:30pm EST and lasted about an hour.

And why wouldn't it? Tesla stock shot up nearly 15% after hours Wednesday and pre-market Thursday, at one point printing new all time highs of $659, assigning a market value of the company of nearly $120 billion.

On the call, the company reiterated that it would exceed 500,000 vehicles delivered this year, inclusive of the Model Y. CEO Elon Musk also talked about the Cybertruck, saying it was the most "bad-ass futuristic vehicle" and claiming they will make as many as they can sell.

"The product is better than people realize," Musk said on the call.

Yes, the one with the broken windows. That one.

CFO Zach Kirkhorn noted that the company's Model 3 backlog had finally dried up and that Tesla was no longer filling orders from reservations, but rather just to "fresh demand".

The Model 3 ASP has "stabilized," he said. Kirkhorn also noted that the company is expecting higher gross margins on the Model Y than on the Model 3. He also said that Tesla was taking the lessons it learned from trying to ramp up the Model 3 for use producing the Model Y in Fremont and for production in Shanghai.

Which seems like a great spot for us to point out that much of Tesla's operating cash flow and free cash flow "success" over 2019 came mostly after the company parted ways with two Chief Accounting Officers, a Corporate Treasurer, a CFO and two general counsels. Probably just a coincidence, as @SheepleAnalytics noted on social media last night.

Musk also spoke about the Buffalo factory, saying it was "doing great", which flies in the face of media reports this year claiming the factory is a hotbed for racism and questionable productivity.

"Do you want a roof that is alive with power or dead without?" Musk asked about the solar roof.

How about a product that was pitched to the world in 2016 to justify the bailout of a bankrupt company and, 4 years later, still doesn't seem to exist?

The company also said it would boost energy product deployments by at least 50% and said limited numbers of the Tesla Semi would start to trickle out.

Musk said on the call that the company doesn't have plans of raising money because it's still able to meet its capex obligations while remaining cash flow positive.

Not everybody was beaming with optimism after the call. Liam Denning's follow up at Bloomberg was quick to point out, however that "the dissonance between mouse-sized results and elephantine market reactions is deafening."

Specifically, he noted that: "the $105 million of earnings was more than accounted for by the $133 million of regulatory credits sold in the quarter."

He also commented: "As for the $1 billion of free cash flow Tesla reported, more than half is accounted for by those credits, a big working capital swing and $204 million of “other” cash from operations that await some 10K-filing details."

Tesla also mentioned on the call that they expected operational expenses to increase during the year due to the production ramp of the Model Y and operations in Shanghai. The company said it could "slightly" impact profit, but that it was too early to tell by how much.

There were also caveats mentioned on the call that weren't in the company's official press release, like seasonal effects and potential headwinds from the coronavirus outbreak.

Elon Musk also seemed to continue his aversion to selling equity. When asked by Dan Levy of Credit Suisse why he wouldn't just pay down his debt with a small capital raise at the company's nosebleed valuation, Musk responded by saying they would pay the debt down, "steadily", as time goes by.

All told, it was another "win" for Musk as the company's valuation gives Musk significant breathing room to operate and moves the company even closer to Musk's incentive awards listed on his pay plan. But while the company may have been able to game one more quarter of positive looking headline results and a strong top line, there's always another quarter waiting in the wings.

We'll do it again in 3 more months, Elon.