Violence At Jamia Students’ Rally, First Case Of Coronavirus In India + More Top News 
 Reuters
 A person fired a shot in the presence of police personnel while chanting “Jai Shri Ram” slogans, injuring a Jamia student, while they were marching to Raj Ghat on Mahatma’s Gandhi death anniversary. Read more
 Here’s more top news of the day:
 Kerala Student Has Been Confirmed Positive For Coronavirus; First Case In India
  Reuters
 Passengers who have travelled to China recently are being screened for symptoms in at least 20 Indian airports.  The virus which originated in China has so far killed 170. Read more
 'Shaheen Bagh Game Over', Jamia Gunman Rambhakt Gopal Posted Threats On Facebook Before Opening Fire
  Twitter
 On Thursday, the Delhi Police arrested a man who identified himself as Rambhakt Gopal, moments after he opened fire at a protest march outside Delhi's Jamia Millia Islamia University, injuring one student. According to the police he is 19 years old.  Read more
 What Happens When Airlines Ban A Passenger From Flying Depends On Who You Are
 
 Ever since Tuesday, there is a lot of conversation about the 'No-fly list', following the mid-air altercation between stand up comedian Kunal Kamra and news anchor Arnab Goswami. Read more
 Gorakhpur Doctor Kafeel Khan Arrested By UP Police In Mumbai For Inflammatory Comments At AMU Last Month
 
 The Special Task Force (STF) of the Uttar Pradesh Police has arrested Dr. Kafeel Khan the former pediatrician at the BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur. He was allegedly making inflammatory statements at the Aligarh Muslim University during protests against the Citizenship Amendments Act (CAA) last month. Read more
 No Strict Action Against Politicians Accused Of Hate Speech Shows Authorities Aren’t Serious Enough
 The protesters at Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh have been painted as potential rapist and murderers. Women and children are allegedly used in Islamic State-like module. Over the last few days, many politicians have spewed targeted hatred against the protesters. Read more