Coronavirus case likely in Scotland in coming days 
 Image copyright
                 Getty Images
                
            
            
        A  case of coronavirus is "highly likely" to be detected in Scotland in the coming days, according to Scotland's chief medical officer. 
Dr Catherine Calderwood said that an emergency resilience operation had been activated and that Scotland was "well prepared" for an outbreak. 
So far 7,700 cases of the virus have been confirmed in China, with the death toll standing at 170. 
All 11 patients who have been tested so far in Scotland have tested negative. 
Dr Calderwood reassured the public that public health and infectious disease experts were "working round the clock". 
She said: "It is highly likely we'll have a positive case of coronavirus in Scotland in the coming days. 
"The public can be assured that Scotland has well established plans and is well prepared for these types of outbreak."
The chief medical officer added: " We have a proven track record of dealing with challenging health issues and have established public health and infectious disease experts working round the clock.  
"We have also activated our emergency resilience operation."
Scottish labs to be able to test for virus
Scottish laboratories will be able to start testing for the Wuhan strain of the virus in the coming weeks.
Currently, samples taken from patients in Scotland who need to be tested for the virus have to be sent to a Public Health England lab in London. 
Once the tests are received in London, it can take between 24 and 48 hours for a result to be known. 
In that time, those being tested are isolated to avoid the virus spreading. Depending on their symptoms, they have either been told to isolate themselves at home or kept isolated in hospital.

    
            
            Media playback is unsupported on your device

      
    
    Media captionWhat are viruses? And how do they spread?
As of Thursday, 11 patients in Scotland tested negative for the coronavirus strain. The majority were well enough to isolate themselves at home while they waited for results, but some were admitted to hospital. 
Virology testing centres in Glasgow and Edinburgh will get the ability to test for the virus first, followed by labs in Aberdeen and Dundee. Inverness will also have some testing ability. 
Health officials warn travellers returning to Scotland from Wuhan to stay indoors and avoid contact with others where possible for 14 days after returning, even if they have no symptoms. 
This is because the incubation period for the virus is believed to be between one and 14 days. Experts think that it is infectious during this time - before symptoms show. 
For those who develop symptoms (which include a high temperature, cough, chest tightness and shortness of breath) within two weeks of travel to the Chinese city should contact NHS24 on 111. 

            
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        What are the symptoms? 
Coronaviruses are common, and typically cause mild respiratory conditions, such as a cough or runny nose.
But some are more serious - such as the deadly Sars (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) and Mers (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome). 
This outbreak - known as novel coronavirus (nCoV) - is a new strain that has not been previously identified in humans.

            
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        It seems to start with a fever, followed by a dry cough and then, after a week, leads to shortness of breath.
But in more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and even death. 
Most of those who died have been elderly people, suffering from other chronic diseases including Parkinson's and diabetes.

            
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Is Scotland prepared for an outbreak?
A plan is in place for dealing with a confirmed case, as is usual for any virus outbreak.
Patients with the virus will be isolated. 
Depending on how unwell they are, they could be told to stay at home and avoid contact with others. 
Those who are unwell enough to be admitted to hospital will be isolated. 
This could mean putting them in a single-bed room, rather than on a ward shared with other patients. 
Hospital staff can protect themselves from contracting the virus by wearing simple protective equipment including gloves, a face mask and an apron. 
In the event of more serious precautions being required, patients could be sent to an infectious diseases unit. 
Scotland has them in Edinburgh, Glasgow, Aberdeen and Lanarkshire. 
If it's what health officials call a high consequence infectious disease - other strains of coronavirus Sars and Mers were -  then the patient could be transferred to a specialist facility outside Scotland. 
UK case 'likely to come from someone already here'
Prof Yvonne Doyle, medical director and director of health protection for Public Health England, said the first UK case is likely to come from someone already in the country.
As of Wednesday, a total of 130 tests had been carried out on people across England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland - all with negative results.
The UK government said the risk to the population remains low.

            
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Learn more about the new virus

            
                
                
                
                
                
                 Image copyright
                 Getty
                
            
            
        
            
                
                
                
                
                
            
            
        Have you been affected by any of the issues raised? You can share your experience by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways: