Pedophile raped his girlfriend's twin 4-year-old girls and gave them gonorrhea 
 Arturo Macarro Gutierrez was convicted of four counts of criminal sexual conduct on Tuesday for raping his girlfriend’s twin four-year-old girls. (Picture: Ramsey County Sheriff’s Office)A man raped his girlfriend’s twin four-year-old girls and infecting them with gonorrhea, prosecutors said.

Arturo Macaro Gutierrez, 36, was found guilty on Tuesday of four counts of criminal sexual conduct after a four-day trial St Paul, Minnesota.

Gutierrez was arrested and charged in October 2018 after one of the victims told her grandmother that her ‘daddy’ hurt her, according to court documents.

At the time, Gutierrez was dating the girls’ mother.

The girl was taken to Children’s Hospital where testing determined that she had gonorrhea, a sexually transmitted bacterial infection, The Pioneer Press reported.


Gutierrez has previously been arrested fro assault, domestic assault, giving police a false name and fleeing police. (Picture: Ramsey County Sheriff’s Office)A SWAT team executed a search warrant at home in West St Paul and arrested Gutierrez, who was hiding from officers in the attic.

He insisted that he did not hurt the girl, but was charges with sexual assault after he tested positive for gonorrhea, according to court records.

Harrowing footage shows dog yelping as it is barbecued alive in street marketGutierrez was also charged with assaulting the victim’s twin sister after she tested positive for gonorrhea as well.

After Gutierrez was found guilty on Tuesday, Ramsey County Attorney John Choi said: ‘Cases involving sexual assault of young children pose significant barriers since they do not possess the language to describe the acts, may not understand that the abuse was wrong, and are susceptible to intimidation and manipulation by the offender.’

‘This verdict is attributable to the tremendous courage of the young victims and the willingness of caring adults to believe them.’

Flight bringing Brits back from coronavirus city in China will leave tonightGutierrez is set to be sentenced on April 1.

Prosecutor Dawn Bask, reportedly intends to ask for a sentence longer than what is called for under state sentencing guidelines because of the nature of the case, according to the Ramsey County Attorney’s Office.