Coronavirus: Cruise ship passengers contained in Italy as cases continue to rise 
 Some 7000 people are being kept on a cruise liner amid coronavirus fears after a passenger took ill in Italy.

Italian health authorities were screening 6000 passengers and 1000 crew aboard a cruise ship docked north of Rome after a passenger from Macao came down with flu-like symptoms, officials said Thursday.

China has reported 170 deaths and at least 7800 infections from the virus that first emerged in the central city of Wuhan. There are now reported cases in every region of China, and more people have now been infected in the country than were sickened there during the 2002-2003 SARS epidemic.

The World Health Organisation is today reconvening experts to assess whether the outbreak should be declared a global emergency.

READ MORE:

 * Coronavirus: Government charters Air NZ flight to assist Wuhan departure

 * Coronavirus: China vows to slay 'demon' virus as fear grows

 * Explainer: What is coronavirus and how worried should we be?

 * Human-to-human transmission confirmed in China coronavirus

The Costa Crociere cruise line said the 54-year-old woman and her partner, who has no symptoms, were immediately put into isolation Wednesday and the case reported to Italian maritime authorities. Passengers of the Costa Smeralda were being kept on board Thursday pending checks to determine the type of virus.

The ship had sailed from Mallorca, Spain, to Civitavecchia on a weeklong Mediterranean cruise but no passengers were allowed off for a planned walk in sunny Rome on Thursday.

"All the planned mechanisms were activated. Health authorities are on board, doing checks," Italian Coast Guard Cmdr. Vincenzo Leone said at the port of Civitavecchia. "The situation is under control. There's a security cordon on the dock."

New Zealand will charter an aircraft to assist Kiwis in Wuhan, Foreign Minister Winston Peters has said. Those evacuated will not be quarantined on Christmas Island, he said, despite working closely with Australia which has said it plans to place its citizens there for 14 days.

He couldn't yet say where evacuees coming to New Zealand were likely to be quarantined.

European countries are also stepping up efforts. An A380 plane took off from a former military airport at Beja, 200 kilometres southeast of Lisbon, Portugal, to evacuate 350 Europeans early on Friday morning, New Zealand time.

The captain said the flight was going first to Paris, to pick up a team of doctors and extra crew, before heading to Hanoi and then China. Portuguese Foreign Minister Augusto Santos Silva said the flight was coordinated between European Union countries and Chinese authorities.

Britain said its evacuation flight will take off from Wuhan later on Friday. It had been due to return to Britain on Thursday, but the flight was delayed by because permissions form the Chinese government had not come through. Returning Britons will be quarantined.

The United States evacuated 195 Americans from Wuhan who are being tested and monitored at a Southern California military base. A statement from the Embassy in Beijing said additional evacuation flights were being planned for Monday or surrounding days.

France, Indonesia, India, Singapore and other countries are also trying to get out their citizens. Taiwan, the self-governing republic China considers its own territory, has also asked to be able to repatriate its passport holders from Wuhan, but it, and the United Kingdom, said they were awaiting approval from Beijing.

In South Korea, residents in two cities where quarantine facilities are being prepared threw eggs and water bottles at government officials to protest plans to isolate in the neighbourhood 700 South Koreans the government plans to evacuate from China.

The Czech Republic, meanwhile, announced it was stopping issuing visas to Chinese citizens, while Swedish furniture and home goods retailer IKEA announced all its stores in mainland China would remain closed to protect its customers and staff from the outbreak. The stores are a favourite haunt of Chinese city dwellers both for shopping and for hanging out.

Scandinavian Airlines is halting all its flights to Beijing and Shanghai, and Spain's Iberia national airline is halting flights between Madrid and Shanghai. Those announcements followed earlier moves to halt or reduce flights to China by other airlines, including British Airways, Lufthansa, Austrian Airlines, Swiss, Air France and KLM.

MOST CASES STILL IN CHINA

The WHO emergencies chief, Michael Ryan, spoke in Geneva after returning from Beijing. He said China was taking "extraordinary measures in the face of an extraordinary challenge" posed by the outbreak.

To date, about 99 per cent of the cases are in China. Ryan estimated the death rate of the new virus at 2 per cent, but said the figure was very preliminary. With fluctuating numbers of cases and deaths, scientists are only able to produce a rough estimate of the fatality rate and it's likely many milder cases of the virus are being missed.

In comparison, the SARS virus killed about 10 per cent of people who caught it. The new virus is from the coronavirus family, which includes those that can cause the common cold as well as more serious illnesses such as SARS and MERS.

Scientists say there are many questions to be answered about the new virus, including just how easily it spreads and how severe it is.

Chinese authorities have demanded anyone who travelled from or through Wuhan report to health authorities and self-quarantine themselves for 14 days, the maximum incubation period during which patients can be infectious even if they don't show symptoms.

China has been largely praised for a swift and effective response to the outbreak, although questions have been raised about the police suppression of what were early on considered mere rumours - a reflection of the one-party Communist state's determination to maintain a monopoly on information in spite of smart phones and social media.

That stands in stark contrast to the initial response to SARS, when medical reports were hidden as state secrets. The delayed response was blamed for allowing the disease to spread worldwide, killing around 800 people.