Liverpool readying Kai Havertz transfer offer with Bayer Leverkusen ‘expecting bid’ 
 Liverpool are preparing a move for Kai Havertz at the end of the season, reports in Germany have claimed. The midfielder is attracting interest from a host of top clubs and Jurgen Klopp is thought to be among his admirers.

Havertz has established himself as a regular with Germany in an inconsistent Bayer side, who continue to produce inconsistent results in the Bundesliga.
Nonetheless, the 20-year-old continues to standout and has all the attributes to become a complete midfielder.
According to Bild reporter Christian Falk, there are plenty of clubs plotting a summer move for Havertz.
Replying to claims that Havertz will not join Bayern Munich in the summer, Falk shed light on the situation.
JUST IN: Man Utd could complete shock transfer deal for striker because of coronavirus 

“Not true,” he said, before claiming that a Spanish, English and German club were all in the hunt.
He later confirmed that the German club was in fact the Bavarians.
Falk then dropped a bombshell regarding Liverpool: “His club Leverkusen is expecting an offer from LFC.”
Midfield is an area that is likely to receive attention from Klopp in the summer market.
DON'T MISS
Four last-minute deals on Man Utd agenda after completing Bruno Fernandes transfer
Man Utd scouts drool over Maxi Gomez after Ole Gunnar Solskjaer transfer assignment
Man Utd fans go wild as mystery man 'arrives for medical' ahead of transfer deadline day

Adam Lallana is expected to move on upon the expiry of his contract.
That’s at least one player that will need replacing, should there not be a swing of the pendulum.
Havertz said earlier this season that he is already beginning to think about the next step in his career.
"I am honest, at some point the next step must come for me,” Havertz said.

“But I'm not going to worry about when exactly that will happen...
"I really don't know yet whether FC Bayern is the next and right step for me.
“I also don't know whether foreign countries would not be more suitable for me.
“I really don't think too much about it at the moment.
“I have that self-confidence, yes [that I could play for Bayern]. But the same applies to other clubs as well."