Tesla spikes 9% after a 2nd straight blockbuster earnings report 
 Tesla shares spiked as much as 9% on Thursday after the automaker beat analysts' fourth-quarter profit and revenue estimates.The company also accelerated its rollout for the Model Y crossover, announcing deliveries will start by the end of March.The earnings win extended Tesla's rally through the new year. The stock is already up about 52% after hitting numerous record highs in 2020.Watch Tesla trade live here.Tesla stock soared as much as 9% on Thursday after the automaker trounced Wall Street's expectations with its fourth-quarter figures.



The company topped analyst estimates for both quarterly profit and revenue, and posted a second-consecutive quarter of profitability. Tesla expects 2020 deliveries to "comfortably exceed" 500,000, quashing analysts' once-prevalent supply fears. The estimate marks a 36% delivery increase from the 367,500 total in 2019.Tesla again announced it was ahead of schedule in rolling out its Model Y crossover, revealing a "production ramp" began in January and deliveries will begin by the end of March.Here are the key numbers:Revenue: $7.4 billion, versus the $7.1 billion estimate



Earnings-per-share: $2.14, versus the $1.74 estimateGross margin: 18.8%, versus the 18.3% estimate"In 2019, we managed to generate more than $1 billion of free cash flow while building a factory in Shanghai in record time and while building parts of Model Y production," CEO Elon Musk said in a call with analysts. "For us to have this level of free cash flow while making massive investments in capacity while developing new products, while improving the core engineering, is a testament to the, I think, incredible performance of the Tesla team."Tesla shares have nearly tripled from prices seen as recently as October, and are up about 52% year-to-date. The company's last earnings report posted a surprising return to profitability and a positive update for Tesla's production of vehicles in China. Tesla stock jumped as much as 17% following the third-quarter report.



The rosy fourth-quarter figures prompted a spate of analyst upgrades. The company's continued profitability and "healthy cash flow" made for a "potentially game-changing" report, Wedbush analyst Dan Ives wrote. The Tesla bull maintained a "neutral" rating for the stock but lifted his price target to $710 per share from $550.The automaker should easily surpass 500,000 deliveries in the new year, and ramping up production in China could drive the stock to $1,000 in the long term, Ives added.Tesla closed at $580.99 per share Wednesday.The company has nine "buy" ratings, 10 "hold" ratings, and 18 "sell" ratings, with a consensus estimate of $431.56, according to Bloomberg data.



Now read more markets coverage from Markets Insider and Business Insider:Here are the 3 reasons why coronavirus fears are roiling markets faster than the 2003 SARS breakout, according to one investment chiefThe market's favorite recession signal is flashing red again as coronavirus fears rageGOLDMAN SACHS: You can make a killing this earnings season using a simple, low-cost strategy on these 20 stocks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Markets Insider