Mortgage rates sink to their second-lowest levels in three years 
 The 15-year fixed-rate average dropped to 3 percent with an average 0.7 point. It was 3.04 percent a week ago and 3.89 percent a year ago. The five-year adjustable rate average went down to 3.24 percent with an average 0.3 point. It was 3.28 percent a week ago and 3.96 percent a year ago.

“Mortgage rates fell over the past week, heavily influenced by growing global fears surrounding the ongoing coronavirus outbreak that continued to drive market movements this week,” said Matthew Speakman, a Zillow economist. “While the epidemic’s impact on global commerce remains unclear, markets appear to be erring on the side of pessimism, preparing for slowdowns in growth and, potentially, another cut to the Federal Reserve’s benchmark interest rate.” 

The coronavirus outbreak is undoing all the good the December trade deal between Beijing and Washington did. Investors are worried about the damage it will do not only to China’s economy but also the global economy. With companies closing down operations across the country, supplies to U.S. businesses could be delayed.

At the moment, the Federal Reserve has decided it will not take any action to stimulate the economy. The Fed left its benchmark rate unchanged after its meeting this week. Although the central bank does not set mortgage rates, its decisions can influence them. The Fed will continue to monitor risks but “we expect moderate economic growth to continue,” Fed Chair Jerome H. Powell told reporters Wednesday.

The bond market has benefited from all this uncertainty. Investors have been buying up bonds, driving down yields. The yield on the 10-year Treasury tumbled to 1.6 percent on Wednesday, its lowest level since early October.

“The last few days were about the coronavirus which, as bad headlines often do — pushed money into bonds from stocks,” said Logan Mohtashami, senior loan officer at AMC Lending Group in Irvine, Calif. “Some of the recent economic data was fine, nothing too dramatic on that front. The Fed isn’t going to move this year, so don’t worry about Fed rate hikes. If anything, you’re more likely to see a [rate] cut than a hike. What the bond market is telling you is correct: Even with the stock market doing well, there is no recession coming but there is no higher rate of growth either — just yet. Watch carefully for any bad headlines from the coronavirus, this can spark an even bigger rally in bonds.” 

Bankrate.com, which puts out a weekly mortgage rate trend index, found half the experts it surveyed say rates will go down in the coming week. Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economics, is one who predicts rates will move lower.

“There’s some uncertainty about 2020 setting in,” Naroff said.

Meanwhile, mortgage applications picked up again fueled by lower rates. According to the latest data from the Mortgage Bankers Association, the market composite index — a measure of total loan application volume — increased 7.2 percent last week. The refinance index jumped 8 percent, while the purchase index rose 5 percent.

The refinance share of mortgage activity accounted for 60.4 percent of applications.

“This year’s lower mortgage rates continue to encourage borrowers to act,” said Bob Broeksmit, MBA president and CEO. “Mortgage applications jumped 7 percent last week, with both refinances and purchase activity showing strong weekly and annual gains. Lenders in most of the country are reporting that demand has been robust for all of January, as prospective buyers see these low rates and look to get a jump-start on their home search before spring.”