How thousands of Australians may have been exposed to coronavirus 
 Thousands of people could have been exposed to coronavirus in Australia by the country's night confirmed patients alone.

Four people in Sydney, three in Melbourne, and two on the Gold Coast have been struck down with the deadly virus in the past few weeks.

Each one flew in from Wuhan, the Chinese city where the outbreak began, on planes packed with hundreds of potential victims.

At least a day passed after they arrived before they developed flu-like symptoms and eventually went to hospital.

During this time when they didn't know they were sick, they interacted with hundreds of people each, some of whom could now be infected.

One holidaymaker spent several days on a tour before getting on another plane and becoming unwell the next day. Four of his tour companions are now sick.

Another patient was even allowed out of isolation to celebrate Australia Day at a restaurant with his family while he was waiting for test results.

People they infected will be going about their lives on crowded trains and buses, having business meetings, and sharing meals - potentially passing the virus on.

This is just from the nine confirmed cases - more than a dozen other people are being tested after developing symptoms associated with the virus.

The first men were confirmed to be infected with coronavirus on January 25 - three in NSW and another in Victoria.

Two arrived on direct flights from Wuhan to Sydney on separate China Eastern Airlines flight MU749, one on January 20 and another on an unknown date.

Both these flights had up to 250 passengers plus several crew on board who are prime candidates for infection.

Another man, diagnosed on the same day, flew in to Sydney via Shenzhen, near Hong Kong, on January 6 on a plane that carries up to 277 people.

The fourth arrived in Melbourne from Wuhan via Guangzhou on January 19 on a an an A388 carrying up to 525 passengers.

NSW Health advice states that people are at risk of catching the virus if they spent 15 minutes in close contact, such as a face-to-face conversation, or two hours in the same confined space.

Chinese health authorities have confirmed that, contrary to earlier belief, patients are contagious even before they develop symptoms.

On Monday, it was confirmed that a 21-year-old University of NSW student who arrived on a different MU749 flight was infected.

The university told students in an email that she became unwell soon after her flight and isolated herself in her on-campus dorm room for 24 hours before going to hospital.

UNSW is not in semester but there are still some students and staff on campus she could have interacted with, along with on public transport and at the airport.

Many students are terrified they could be infected next, especially with thousands of Chinese classmates due to arrive on campus in coming weeks.

The second Melbourne patient landed on January 21, though it is not clear which flight he was on, and wasn't diagnosed until Wednesday.

The man in his 60s went to hospital two days later but was allowed out of isolation to celebrate Australia Day with his family.

He was with five family members - three adults and two children - at The House of Delight in Glen Waverley between 5.30pm and 7pm.

Victoria's chief health officer Dr Brett Sutton urged other diners to contact the health department and watch for coronavirus symptoms.

Other businesses in the same building as the restaurant on 52 Montclair Avenue have closed until February 9 and others are thinking about shutting up shop.

A cleaner was brought in to disinfect buttons in the building's lift.

One of the patient's adult relatives and one of the children have tested negative so far, and all five are in isolation with him.

The seventh victim has the most capacity to have infected hundreds of others, and already four who spent time with him are sick.

The 44-year-old Chinese tourist arrived in Melbourne from Wuhan via Singapore on January 22 and spent several days on a tour.

All eight of the fellow holidaymakers are now in isolation with him at Gold Coast University Hospital with four of them, including children, feeling unwell.

They all took Tiger Air flight TT566, landing on the Gold Coast about 8pm on Monday on a plane that carries up to 189 passengers.

Queensland Health chief officer Dr Jeannette Young on Thursday said she was concerned about everyone on the plane.

'My concern is that those 150-200 people on that plane when he started getting symptoms and then his 24 hours in the Gold Coast community, I need to track exactly where he went,' she said.

Tiger Air said it was in the process of contacting the passengers and crew to notify them so they could visit their GP for testing.

The 44-year-old stayed at an apartment in the Oracle building ion Broadbeach, which is in the same building as the $900-a-night Peppers hotel frequented by celebrities including Taylor Swift.

He became increasingly unwell after first developing symptoms before the flight out of Melbourne and called an ambulance about 3.30pm on Tuesday.

On Thursday evening, a 42-year-old woman who flew into the country on Tigerair flight TT56 was confirmed to be infected in the Gold Coast.

She was travelling with a 44-year-old man who has already been confirmed as having the killer virus.

Their companions - who include children - are being tested. At least four of them, including the children, are among those showing symptoms of the virus.

The group were staying at a hotel in Broadbeach.

A Chinese tourist who arrived in Melbourne early last week was diagnosed on Thursday a week after she got sick a few days ago.

Her exposure to the public is believed to be more limited as she spent the vast majority of her time with family members she was visiting.

People the nine patients infected could pass the virus on to others, and so on, before they even know they are sick or were exposed at all.

Scientists are still trying to fully understand this strain of coronavirus and work out how contagious it is and how to stop it.

The infection rate of diseases is called its basic reproduction number, known as R0 or r-nought, brought to public attention by 2011 film Contagion about a fictional worldwide pandemic.

Imperial College London estimated coronavirus' R0 to be 2.6, meaning that on average each patient would infect 2.6 others before they died, were isolated, or got better.

This number changes over time as the virus spreads or is brought under control by health authorities - an R0 of less than 1 means it is under control.

Measles is particularly contagious, with a score as high as 16, while SARS was 2 to 5, as is HIV, while a standard flu is about 1.3.

Some particularly deadly diseases, like ebola, have low scores because they kill patients too fast to infect many people, or produce symptoms too fast.

Coronavirus has a mortality rate of about 2 per cent, compared to 9.5 per cent for SARS and 34.5 per cent in the 2012 MERS outbreak.

Australia is starting at a low base of infection, but this can quickly multiply if the average R0 observed in China is met.

Coronavirus has killed 170 so far, all in China, and more than 7,800 are infected worldwide.