Napolitano says bringing up new charges would be 'mistrial' if impeachment were in criminal court 
 Fox News analyst Andrew Napolitano Andrew Peter NapolitanoFox's Napolitano: There is 'ample and uncontradicted' evidence supporting Trump's removal from office Fox News legal analyst: There's 'undisputed evidence' Trump abused his power Fox's Napolitano predicts Trump will testify on own behalf at Senate trial MORE argued Thursday it would be a "mistrial" for House managers to bring up crimes the president is not charged with in a criminal trial, though he acknowledged during so in the impeachment trial is another matter.

Napolitano, a former judge and senior legal analyst for Fox News, made the remarks during an appearance on "Fox & Friends."

President Trump Donald John TrumpDemocrats outraged over White House lawyer's claim that some foreign involvement in elections is acceptable Senators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session White House announces task force to monitor coronavirus MORE's legal team made a similar argument on Wednesday after House Impeachment Manager Adam Schiff Adam Bennett SchiffSenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session How low will the president go? Live coverage: Senators query impeachment managers, Trump defense MORE (D-Calif.) raised bribery charges that weren't mentioned in the two articles of impeachment passed by the House.

Napolitano said it would be a mistrial if charges not made against a defendant in a criminal case were raised during a trial, but he said impeachment is another matter.

"This would not happen in front of a jury in a criminal case. It absolutely would be a mistrial if it were stated in front of a jury in a criminal case," he sad. "But this is a different kind of jury where they each get to accuse the other side of all kinds of things."

The former Havard law professor, who was added to the president's legal team for the Senate trial after voicing opposition to Trump's impeachment primarily on Fox News, argued that if the conduct the president is accused of by Democrats as it pertains to his dealings with Ukraine, that without a criminal element, it does not rise to the level of an impeachable offense.

"That is clear from the language of the Constitution," Dershowitz argued on the Senate floor earlier this week. "You cannot turn conduct that is not impeachable into impeachable conduct simply by using words like 'quid pro quo' and 'personal benefit.'"

Deputy White House counsel Patrick Philbin on Wednesday criticized Schiff for broaching bribery and extortion charges against the president without adding those charges to the final two articles delivered to the Senate earlier this month.



"If this were a criminal trial in an ordinary court and Mr. Schiff had done what he just did on the floor here, and start talking about crimes of bribery and extortion that were not in the indictment, it would’ve been an automatic mistrial," Philbin argued. "We’d all be done now, and we could go home. And Mr. Schiff knows that, because he’s a former prosecutor."



"It is not permissible for the House to come here, failing to have charged, failing to have put in the articles of impeachment any crime at all, and then to start arguing that, he continued.



"It’s totally impermissible. It’s a fundamental violation of due process," Philbin later added.



The back-and-forth one day before a crucial decision is made on Friday of whether to bring in witnesses.

The trial could end as soon as Friday if additional witnesses are not heard from