Panic buying hits Britain as shops sell out of face masks and hand wash 
 Shops are selling out of face masks and hand sanitisers amid fears the coronavirus is about to reach the UK.

The World Health Organisation (WHO) has said the ‘whole world needs to be on alert’ and is set to decide whether to declare it an international public health emergency.

Millions across the globe have rushed to buy face masks despite experts warning there is ‘very little evidence’ they help – and the trend seems to have spread to Britain.

On the Boots website, a six-pack of ‘safe & sound’ surgical face masks is now sold out, with a note saying they will not be receiving any further stock.

Another product on the Boots website, a box of 50 masks, is also sold out and carries the same message about not being restocked.

Boots said surgical face masks are available to order in stores as a special line from the pharmacy counter, adding that they are ‘working to make additional stock available for customers to purchase in store and on boots.com which we hope will land over the next week’.

Of the chemist’s 29 hand sanitiser products, only four are currently showing as being in stock.

A Boots spokeswoman said: ‘The best way to help prevent catching a virus is by making sure you regularly wash your hands with soap, and avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth to prevent transmission from surfaces, especially after blowing your nose, sneezing and coughing.

‘Antiviral hand foams and gel can also be useful when you are out and about.

‘Surgical face masks are normally available on request from Boots stores and customers can order from our pharmacy counters, depending on stock availability.

‘All our pharmacists have the latest public health advice on coronavirus and can offer advice on the best way to stay healthy this winter.’

A branch of B&Q in London appeared to be low on stocks of face masks, with racks empty on Wednesday evening. B&Q has been contacted for comment.

Meanwhile, on amazon.co.uk, a pack of 12 ‘anti virus’ flu surgical face masks is sold out, with the online retailer saying they do not know when, or if, the item will be back in stock, although there are other masks available on the site.

Dr Jake Dunning, head of emerging infections and zoonoses, Public Health England, said: ‘Face masks play a very important role in clinical settings, such as hospitals.

‘However, there is very little evidence of widespread benefit from their use outside of these clinical settings.

‘Facemasks must be worn correctly, changed frequently, removed properly, disposed of safely and used in combination with good universal hygiene behaviour in order for them to be effective.

‘Research also shows that compliance with these recommended behaviours reduces over time when wearing facemasks for prolonged periods.

‘People concerned about the transmission of infectious diseases would do better to prioritise good personal, respiratory and hand hygiene.’