Wilbur Ross denies taking ghoulish ‘victory lap’ after cheerleading deadly coronavirus as boon to U.S. economy 
 Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross cheered the deadly coronavirus Thursday as a potential boost for the American economy even as he denied taking a “victory lap” over the still-spreading pandemic that has already killed 170 people in China.Showing a shocking insensitivity in the face of a global health threat, Ross said the deadly virus would spur businesses to shift their supply chains out of Asia.“I don’t want to talk about a victory lap over a very unfortunate, very malignant disease,” Ross said. “(But) I think it will help to accelerate the return of jobs to North America.”Ross ghoulishly claimed that corporations would weigh the risk of future health crises when deciding where to produce goods. “It does give businesses yet another thing to consider when they go through their review of their supply chain,” Ross said. “On top of all the other things, you had SARS, you had the African swine virus there, now you have this. It’s another risk factor that people need to take into account."Along with being shockingly tone deaf, Ross’s argument about the impact of coronavirus is probably flat out wrong.Although the virus has largely remained confined to China, it is showing signs of spreading rapidly to Hong Kong, elsewhere in Asia and even the U.S. So far there have been five confirmed cases of coronavirus in the U.S. along with more than 100 suspected cases. Public health experts say that number could rise sharply and it could affect the global economy in a way that would sharply affect the U.S.President Trump did not immediately comment on Ross’s remarks. He took a much more sympathetic tone in a tweet that offered China and the world American help containing the virus.Just received a briefing on the Coronavirus in China from all of our GREAT agencies, who are also working closely with China. We will continue to monitor the ongoing developments. We have the best experts anywhere in the world, and they are on top of it 24/7! pic.twitter.com/rrtF1Stk78 Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 30, 2020 The president has previously questioned Ross’s fitness for the job and privately blamed him for botching the unsuccessful fight to add a citizenship question to the upcoming census. An anonymous White House aide quoted Trump attacking Ross as having " lost his step. Actually, he’s probably lost a lot of steps." But that was two years ago and he hasn’t gone anywhere."