Brits fleeing coronavirus-hit city in plane told they can leave tonight 
 A flight carrying British nationals from Wuhan in China to the UK will leave tonight, the government has said.

The charter flight for more than 200 Brit ex-pats will leave the city at 5am local time (9pm UK time), Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said.

In a statement, Raab said: "We are pleased to have confirmation from the Chinese authorities that the evacuation flight from Wuhan airport to the UK can depart at 5am local time on Friday, January 31.

"The safety and security of British nationals is our top priority.

"Our Embassy in Beijing and consular teams remain in close contact with British nationals in the region to ensure they have the latest information they need."

Speaking at a Policy Exchange event in Westminster earlier today, Raab insisted Foreign Office officials had "been working tirelessly" to get some 200 Brits out of Wuhan.

He added: "We've been working with the Department of Health flat out, 24/7, to try and make sure we can identify British nationals in Wuhan, get them to a muster point and get them to a flight, a chartered flight in and out."

The plane will land at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire on Friday after leaving the coronavirus-hit city.

Passengers will then be taken to an NHS facility in the northwest for a 14-day quarantine period.

Officials have been working to secure a flight out of Wuhan for Brits after a planned flight on Thursday failed to get clearance from Chinese authorities.

Jeff Siddle, from Northumberland, told the BBC his family faced a "terrible dilemma" after he and his nine-year-old daughter were told they could return to the UK, but not his Chinese wife, who doesn't have a British passport.

Passengers have been told they can only take hand luggage on the flight.

It comes as the World Health Organisation (WHO) prepares to make a statement today which could see coronavirus declared an international public health emergency.

The WHO has said the "whole world needs to be on alert" over the outbreak.

Dr Michael Bryan, executive director of the WHO Health Emergencies Programme said on Wednesday that the decision to make a statement today was due to the increasing number of cases and evidence of person-to-person transmission of the virus.

So far, at least 170 people have died from the virus, with 7,711 cases confirmed worldwide.

British Airways has extended its suspension of all flights to and from mainland China until Monday.