'We could be seeing the peak': experts divided as spread of coronavirus slows 
 After a period of rapid rises in the number of confirmed coronavirus cases late last week the spread of the epidemic appears to be slowing, even as experts remain divided over how long it could remain a major public health issue.

Although more than 1700 new cases were reported on Thursday, bringing the global total to 7700 confirmed cases, the new figure is only a 30 per cent increase on Wednesday's total of 6000 cases.

In comparison, the number of cases confirmed globally increased by about 55 per cent on Saturday and Sunday last week.

It then rose a record 67 per cent on Tuesday this week before the rate of increase began to fall.

READ MORE:

 * Coronavirus: Cruise ship passengers contained in Italy as cases continue to rise

 * Australians will need to pay A$1000 to be evacuated from Wuhan

 * Coronavirus: Government charters Air NZ flight to assist Wuhan departure

 * Kiwi woman quarantined at her flat in China describes the 'eerie' daily struggle

"The reason the number has increased so rapidly could be that the virus is spreading rapidly or it could be that they're just now confirming a large number of cases, it's most likely a combination of the two things," Adam Kamradt-Scott, an expert on pandemics and an associate professor at the University of Sydney's Centre for International Security Studies, said.

"But the outbreak has been largely confined to China and if the Chinese government is able to get a handle quite quickly on it, it could be rapidly contained."

Kamradt-Scott said the lockdown of cities in China's Hubei province, including its capital Wuhan, where the virus originated, could result in numbers dropping off in as little as two weeks.

"It's not probable it could be over in the next month but it is possible if China puts the right measures in place," he said.  "We could be seeing the peak of it now."

Two of the four NSW residents who were being treated for the virus were discharged on Thursday.

Clinical virologist at the University of Queensland's Australian Infectious Diseases Research Centre Ian Mackay said the new coronavirus was more easily transmitted than the SARS virus, to which it has been compared, and could be a global problem for some time.

"Some modelling suggests it could be a matter of months [before the coronavirus is controlled] and some say this is a pandemic we've got for a while," Associate Professor Mackay said.

"It's a very different virus [to SARS] and it'll likely be with us for a while because it spreads so well, we've seen that especially within China. It could be settling in to be one of the respiratory viruses we keep over time."

Associate Professor Mackay said every person with the virus could infect about two or three others.

"That could mean an exponential increase in the number of cases, but so far we haven't seen a massive increase outside of China."

Kamradt-Scott said the international community was at a significant advantage when it came to fighting the new virus in comparison to when SARS began to spread globally.

"SARS was defeated by 14th century methods: quarantine and isolation," he said.

"But the international community already has diagnostic abilities this time because China shared the genome sequence before it began to spread globally and just that simple change has enabled us to be much more on top of the situation."

Kamradt-Scott said the World Health Organisation was likely to declare a Public Health Emergency of International Concern, the highest alert level, this week.

That will also raise the profile of the outbreak and trigger the implementation of pandemic preparation plans in some countries, Kamradt-Scott said.