IBB: The Stage Is Set For Next Bull Market In Biotechs 
 Solid long-term fundamentals and technicals suggest a new breakout in biotech sector is on the horizon.

iShares Biotechnology ETF (IBB) is being dragged down by coronavirus fears along with broader market.

As fears of a global pandemic continue to grip stock markets and crude oil, not even the biotechnology sector (IBB) could escape the wrath with IBB declining more than 6% from year-to-date highs. Indeed, although a handful of biotech names such as VIR which are developing vaccines for the Wuhan coronavirus have skyrocketed in recent days, the broader sector ETF has not participated in the hype.

The pharmaceutical industry perhaps has been more focused on the prospect of lower drug costs in an election year. To quote from Barron's:

While the caucuses are not always a great predictor of who the presidential nominee will be, a poll released on the evening of Jan. 10 found that Sanders leads his Democratic rivals in the state. That is probably not good news for drugmakers. “We are going to take on the greed and corruption of the pharmaceutical industry,” Sanders said from the debate stage on Jan. 14. “That is what Democratic socialism is about, and that will win this election.”

That said, there are multiple reasons to expect a new bull market is on the horizon for the biotech sector.

Based on historical financial statements data provided by TIKR.com, we compiled and aggregated the full year revenue per share for the top 15 holdings of IBB since 2004, including 2019 and 2020 estimates. The below chart shows that revenue on aggregate has been gradually rising while IBB has been largely in consolidation since peaking in 2015:

After a parabolic upswing in IBB leading to bubble-like valuations in 2015, the weighted average price-to-sales ratio of the top 15 holdings has since steadily normalized towards 2011-2012 levels with IBB price practically unchanged from 5 years ago:

In other words, the multi-year price consolidation in IBB and continued revenue growth have led to valuations reverting to levels just prior to the bull market run from 2011.

In addition to valuations, the consolidation pattern in the past 5 years also draws parallels with the one just ahead of the breakout in 2011 from a technical perspective:

Furthermore, long-term momentum is also supportive of further gains with its monthly MACD indicator having turned positive in December after 12 straight months under zero.

Statistically, in the 4 historical instances when IBB's monthly MACD crossed above zero after at least 10 consecutive weeks previously in the negative, 3 of those followed with gains in the next 6 to 12 months averaging 3-5%:

While the return prospect based solely on the technical pattern may not look attractive, robust long-term fundamentals are expected to fuel much larger gains in the years ahead.

According to a 2018 study by U.S. Census Bureau, "by 2030, all baby boomers will be older than age 65. This will expand the size of the older population so that 1 in every 5 residents will be retirement age."

The demographic shift is certainly significant in many facets, particularly on health care due to the fact that more than half of total health care spending is accounted for by age 55 or over based on data from Health System Tracker as of 2016:

As such, it follows that health care expenditures will rise at gradually faster pace as the proportion of aging population increases. In terms of prescription drug spending, a research by Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality demonstrates that total prescribed medicine spending is not only significantly higher for the elderly but has also been trending north in the past decade.

In short, the looming demographic turning point will lead to ever higher demand and expenditures for prescription medication, which would help elevate top-line growth in pharmaceuticals in the long run.

Meanwhile, drug pricing concerns are not certainly dissipating anytime soon, especially in an election year. That being said, Credit Suisse thinks any substantial legislation is unlikely, and upcoming earnings as well as M&A will be the main drivers for biotech per 24/7 Wall Street:

Indeed, our valuation analysis and thesis of normalizing price-to-sales multiples ultimately hinges on the forward estimates at least meeting expectations. As such, we would keep an eye on the earnings reports especially of the top 15 holdings of IBB.

To conclude, we anticipate a bullish breakout in IBB after broader market selloff subsides, with strong fundamentals and technicals being the catalysts. An aging U.S. population further enhances the growth potential for biotech sector due to the expected increase in prescribed drug spending.

Disclosure: I/we have no positions in any stocks mentioned, and no plans to initiate any positions within the next 72 hours. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it (other than from Seeking Alpha). I have no business relationship with any company whose stock is mentioned in this article.

Additional disclosure: We may have options, futures or other derivative positions in the above tickers mentioned.

Editor's Note: This article covers one or more microcap stocks. Please be aware of the risks associated with these stocks.