1,000-hp GMC Hummer electric SUV to roll out of Detroit assembly plant in 2021 
 GMC will begin building a 1,000-horsepower electric Hummer truck in Detroit next year.

The vehicle will combine Hummer’s immediately recognizable looks with a zero-emission electric drivetrain. It uses a new architecture that will underpin a range of electric vehicles from GM, including pickups and SUVs for brands other than GMC.

GM is spending $2.2 billion at its Detroit-Hamtramck assembly plant to produce electric vehicles. It will be the automaker’s first EV-only plant and is expected to employ 2,200 when all vehicles are in production.

The GMC Hummer truck should go on sale in the second half of 2021.

The first look at the vehicle will come in a commercial during the second quarter of the Super Bowl on Sunday.

“GMC builds premium and capable trucks and SUVs and the GMC Hummer EV takes this to new heights,” said Duncan Aldred, vice president of Buick and GMC. “We are excited to debut our revolutionary zero-emissions truck during the biggest night in TV advertising.”

Coronavirus impact:Virus could delay items getting to your favorite store if outbreak continues

The truck will have 1,000 horsepower and 11,500 pound-feet of torque, stunning numbers that GM says will deliver 0-60 mph acceleration in 3 seconds and exceptional off-road ability. GM will reveal more details about the vehicle in late spring.

The first generation of Hummers was controversial for its brash looks, size and poor fuel economy. GM dropped the standalone brand during the Great Recession. GM hopes reviving the name for a line of electric-powered off-road SUVs and pickups under the respected GMC brand will give it a line of premium off-roaders that can compete with Jeep and Range Rover.

“We have no sense how big the market is for electric pickups,” Autotrader executive analyst Michelle Krebs said. “There will be plenty of competition.”

Because electric motors are clean and nearly silent, GMC calls the Super Bowl commercial “The Quiet Revolution.” The brand will take over YouTube’s homepage Friday. There’s also a #GMCHummerEV Twitter handle.

Contact Mark Phelan at 313-222-6731 or mmphelan@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @mark_phelan. Read more on autos and sign up for our autos newsletter.