Wilbur Ross Claims Coronavirus Will Be Good For American Jobs 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	The U.S. Commerce Secretary says the virus has a silver lining for the American economy.
Pablo Martinez Monsivais/ASSOCIATED PRESSTopline: U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said Thursday that the deadly coronavirus will be good for American jobs in the long run, comments that immediately sparked outrage as the disease has killed more than 150 people and infected over 7,000 in its rapid spread across China and to other countries.
“I think it will help accelerate the return of jobs to North America, some to U.S., probably some to Mexico as well,” the Commerce Secretary said. 
His comments came as a response to host Maria Bartiromo’s question about whether the coronavirus will cause the Chinese economy, which commands a large percentage of global economic growth, to “come to a halt.”
While Ross said that he didn’t want to “talk about a victory lap over a very unfortunate, very malignant disease,” he pointed out that “the fact is it does give businesses yet another thing to consider” when reviewing their supply chains.
He also compared the virus, which has taken a toll on global markets, to the 2003 SARS epidemic, calling it yet “another risk factor that people need to take into account.”
Ross described how many U.S. companies will need to consider alternatives once they shut down operations in China due to the spreading virus: “There’s a confluence of factors that will make it very, very likely that there’s more reshoring to the U.S.”
“You’ve already heard Apple talking about figuring out how to replace some of the Chinese production,” he pointed out, while also adding, “you had others also doing the same thing.”

Crucial statistics: Global stock markets fell sharply on Thursday, amid rising concerns over the severity and economic impact of the deadly coronavirus. In Asia, the Hong Kong Hang Seng index dropped more than 2.5%, while Japan’s Nikkei index lost 1.7%. European stocks were also lower: The benchmark Stoxx 600 index declined 1.25%. U.S. stocks also started Thursday on a negative note, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average currently down by 0.6%, the SP 500 by 0.65% and the Nasdaq Composite by 0.7%.
Key background: The Trump administration has repeatedly called for American companies in China to return operations and production back to the U.S. Many tenets of the phase one China trade deal, signed earlier this month, aim to provide incentives for U.S. companies to do just that.
Big number: A longtime friend of President Trump, Ross has a net worth of $600 million, according to Forbes’ latest estimates.