China coronavirus death toll rises to 170 
 Hundreds of foreign evacuees from the Chinese city of Wuhan have entered quarantine as deaths from a fast-spreading virus rose to 170.
Markets shuddered at the impact of an inevitable big hit to the world's No.2 economy, and all eyes were on the World Health Organisation (WHO), which is reconsidering whether to declare a global emergency.
Such a declaration would trigger tighter containment and information-sharing guidelines, but may disappoint Beijing, which had expressed confidence in defeating the "devil" virus.
Chris Weston, head of research at Melbourne brokerage Pepperstone, said an emergency declaration could also potentially spook markets further.
"The fear is that they (the WHO) might raise the alarm bells ... so people are taking money off the table," he said.
The day after a state economist forecast the crisis would lop a percentage point off China's first-quarter growth, global stocks tumbled, the yuan hit its lowest this year, oil prices slid again and safe haven assets like gold gained.
The main stock index in Taiwan, 40 per cent of whose exports go to neighbouring China, closed down 5.75 per cent on the first day of trade after the Lunar New Year holiday.
The coronavirus, which originated in an illegal wildlife market in the central city of Wuhan, has now claimed 170 lives and infected 7711 people in China, latest official data showed on Thursday.
Almost all the deaths have been in Hubei province - of which Wuhan is the capital - where 60 million people are now living under virtual lockdown, staying inside their homes and only venturing out with masks on.
One of 60 Myanmar students trapped in Wuhan said most of the shops were closed.
"We cannot go out and buy food," Si Thu Tun told online news outlet the Democratic Voice of Burma.
"Honestly, I have one big potato and three packs of instant noodles and some rice," he said.
Myanmar plans a special flight to get the students out within three days.
As other countries fly citizens out, cut flights and heighten screening, another 105 cases have emerged in at least 16 places from Japan to the US.
An Italian cruise ship's 6000 passengers were kept on board while tests were held on two Chinese travellers.
The crisis has stoked a wave of anti-China sentiment around the globe, from shops barring tourists to online mockery.
Australia, South Korea, Singapore, New Zealand and Indonesia were quarantining evacuees for at least two weeks, though the US and Japan planned shorter, voluntary isolation.
US President Donald Trump's administration announced the formation of a task force to lead the American response as it prepared to evacuate more citizens from Wuhan.
Three Japanese, from 206 evacuated on Wednesday, were infected, and worryingly two of them had not shown symptoms.
A second Japanese flight included nine people showing fever or coughing symptoms, broadcaster NHK said.
India was the latest nation to report a case, a student of Wuhan University.