Lewis Hamilton reveals he has NOT started contract talks with Mercedes putting future in doubt ahead of new F1 season 
 LEWIS HAMILTON says he has not even started negotiations with his Mercedes team over a new contract.

The world champion's £40million a year terms expire in December, and he has been linked with a switch to Ferrari.

In November, Hamilton said that he was eager to get his future resolved over the winter so he could concentrate on winning a record-equalling seventh world crown.

However, in responding to incorrect reports about Mercedes seeking a crunch board meeting about their future in F1 - plus accusations he was pricing himself out of staying with Merc - Hamilton has let it slip that he has not even spoken to team chief Toto Wolff about a new deal.

Hamilton took to Instagram on Wednesday to comment that "FYI Toto and I have not even spoken about [the] contract yet. Nothing is being negotiated currently."

During the winter break both Max Verstappen and Charles Leclerc have committed their futures to Red Bull and Ferrari respectively.

It means Hamilton's title is likely to start in Australia with question marks about his future at Mercedes.

Meanwhile, F1's governing body, the FIA, say they will monitor the spread of the deadly coronavirus before making a decision on whether to cancel the Chinese Grand Prix.

The British Foreign Office has warned against "all but essential" travel to mainland China, while British Airway has cancelled all flights to and from the stricken country.

It means that the race in Shanghai on April 19th is in danger of being scrapped for a year.

A statement said: "Following the coronavirus epidemic that broke out in China at the beginning of the year, the FIA is closely monitoring the evolving situation with relevant authorities and its Member Clubs, under the direction of FIA Medical Commission President, Professor Gérard Saillant.

"The FIA will evaluate the calendar of its forthcoming races and, if necessary, take any action required to help protect the global motor sport community and the wider public."