Cruise Passengers Are Held at Italian Port Over Coronavirus Fears 
 CIVITAVECCHIA, Italy — Thousands of passengers aboard an Italian cruise ship were being blocked from disembarking in a port town north of Rome on Thursday over fears that a passenger might have contracted the coronavirus that has sickened more than 7,700 people in mainland China and killed at least 170.
A Chinese national aboard the ship, the Costa Smeralda, came down with a fever and was experiencing respiratory problems, according to the Italian news agency ANSA. More than 6,000 people were aboard the ship. A statement from the cruise company confirmed that a “sanitary protocol” had been put in place for one female passenger.
The precaution comes amid international fears that the outbreak of the coronavirus — first detected in a seafood and poultry market in Wuhan, China, last month — will become a global epidemic. Although most of the thousands who have contracted it are in mainland China, at least 68 cases have been reported outside the country.
The ship docked in the port town, Civitavecchia, on Thursday around 8 a.m. after arriving from the Spanish port of Palma de Majorca. It was part of the way through a  seven-day cruise in the Western Mediterranean, which included stops in Italy, France and Spain. More than 1,143 guests had planned to end their cruise on Thursday at the port but were prevented from disembarking.


Others had planned to remain onboard for additional days and the ship was scheduled to depart from Civitavecchia on Thursday evening for La Spezia, Italy.
The ill passenger on the Costa Smeralda was being held in isolation in a hospital ward aboard the ship, as was her husband, who did not appear to have any symptoms, according to a Coast Guard official. Both were tested by infectious disease experts from Spallanzani Hospital in Rome, ANSA reported.
“The guest, a 54-year-old lady of Chinese nationality, is currently put on isolation on the onboard hospital since last night together with her travel mate, in line with health protocols,” the cruise line, Costa Costiera, said in a statement. “As soon as the suspected case was detected, the medical team on board immediately activated all the relevant health procedures to promptly isolate and manage the clinical condition.”
Costa Costiera is managed by Carnival Cruise lines, which later noted that the woman is from Macau. The cruise line company indicated that there were 5,023 guests and 1,628 crew members on board upon arrival at Civitavecchia.
“The health authority has been immediately notified and is now on board to conduct all the pertinent measure,” the cruise line said. “It is our utmost priority to ensure the health and safety of passengers and crew.”


Maria Cartagena, a passenger on the ship, said that the situation on board “was tranquil.”
“They are doing checks on 2 Chinese passengers and for now (logical) they don’t tell us anything else,” she wrote on Twitter. “Kind of stressful.”
Other passengers took to social media to vent concerns and frustrations and share photographs from onboard the ship.
Buses had been parked at the port since 7 a.m. waiting to pick up the disembarking passengers from the ship. One of the bus drivers, Andrea Riccobello, 43, didn’t like being there.
“I am really scared that they will allow people to come down before checking them,” he said of the passengers as dusk fell. “We carry 50 people at the time — there is a high chance of contagion.”
At the port, people planning to board the cruise ship to continue on with the journey gathered on long lines in a holding area, constantly checking their phones for news. Most of them had already checked their luggage onto the ship, and had been waiting to board for hours. 
Some were scared about what awaited them onboard and expressed increased anxiety about the virus, though it was unclear if or when they would be able to join the journey. 
Graziana Iuso, 39, from the southern Italian town of Torremaggiore, said she was nervous after her son came down with a fever. 


“I don’t want to get on that boat,” she said as she waited to board. “A couple of hours is not enough to do check ups.”
She also said that the high number of Chinese tourists in the country made her uneasy that the virus would come to Italy.
Another woman who was set to board the ship for a vacation, Antonella Libardo, the owner of a pizzeria in Puglia, said she trusted the company and would board without hesitation if the authorities gave passengers the green light
“This virus thing is becoming a psychosis,” she said.
Ernesto Tedesco, the mayor of Civitavecchia, said in a telephone interview that health protocols had been immediately activated and that the situation was being constantly monitored.
“We’re not worried,” he said, “but we’re controlling things.” 
An official at Italy’s Health Ministry said the first results of the tests undertaken by the Chinese passenger gave a reassuring clinical picture, but he noted that the ministry was waiting for the results of additional tests to rule out the coronavirus. Those results were expected later Thursday evening.
Meanwhile, the ship’s medical team and local health authorities who had boarded the ship were assessing and taking the temperature of those passengers who were scheduled to disembark in Civitavecchia, the official said. 
Emma Bubola reported from Civitavecchia and Elisabetta Povoledo reported from Rome. Megan Specia contributed reporting from London.