Wuhan residents to be quarantined on 'leper colony' 1K miles from Australia 
 A PLAN to quarantine Australian coronavirus evacuees from China on Christmas Island has been slammed as created.

The Australian government said it was part of an ‘humanitarian’ mission to get people home while shielding mainland Australians at the same time.

Australia is preparing to send potentially hundreds of its citizens rescued from Hubei province to a quarantine camp on remote Christmas Island.

The Indian Ocean island has been used by the government in a widely condemned policy of banishing asylum seekers who attempt to arrive by boat to offshore camps.

But the plan to isolate Australian coronavirus evacuees on island criticised by Christmas Island Shire president Gordon Thomson.

In a text to broadcaster ABC, Mr Thompson said: “'Saw PM's announcement. Regressive colonial era ideas since 2001.

“Create convict settlement for innocent people - now we'll be a leper colony,”

Chinese officials confirmed today the country's death toll had risen to 170 from 132 the day before, while the number of infections jumped 30 per cent to 7,700.

medical teams are bound for Christmas Island to deal with Australian coronavirus evacuees in a bid to protect the mainland from the deadly disease.

Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton said notorious Christmas Island struck the right balance between supporting Australians stranded in China and protecting the wider Australian population from the potentially deadly disease.

The reality is people need to be accommodated somewhere for up to 14 days, Dutton told reporters in Canberra.

He said: “I can't clear out a hospital in Sydney or Melbourne or Brisbane.

“I don't have a facility otherwise that we can quickly accommodate for what might be many hundreds of people and Christmas Island is purpose-built for exactly this scenario.”

But the Australian Medical Association president Tony Bartone told Nine Network television said the Australians would be better quarantined on the Australian mainland.

He said: “We feel that the repatriation to Christmas Island -- to a place previously the focus of populations under enormous mental and physical trauma and anguish -- is not a really appropriate solution.”

In the past the United Nations has condemned Australia's indefinite banishing of asylum seekers to island camps as inhumane, stoking violence and mental illness.

Christmas Island was also chosen because of its prison-like facilities to house foreign criminals who face deportation after serving sentences in Australian prisons.

The facilities currently house only a family of four Sri Lankan asylum seekers who are fighting deportation.