Brits flocking to pharmacies to get their hands on face masks 
 BRITS are flocking to pharmacies across London to get their hands on surgical face masks and hand sanitiser amid coronavirus fears.

Stores are struggling to keep up with demand - as more than 160 Brits have now been tested for the deadly virus.



 The death toll in China today hit 170 with more than 7,700 confirmed cases of the killer infection worldwide.

While there have been no positive cases in the UK, Londoners are rushing to pharmacies to buy up surgical masks to keep themselves safe.

Hari Bhabhani, pharmacy manager City Pharmacy, Borough High St, said he had sold more than 500 masks in just two days.

Speaking to the Sun Online, Mr Bhabhani said: "We had 200 hundred of these come in, again, out of the 200 we received there's only about 13 left.

"People are just panicking and buying in bulk."

The Sun Online spoke with pharmacies in all 32 of London’s boroughs – just two still had surgical masks in stock.

And some pharmacies said they had been told by suppliers they were quickly running out of stock.

Mr Bhabhani said: "We deal with five suppliers, and we’ve been told there’s no stock available, [and that] there’s a national shortage."

But it’s not just high street stores struggling to keep up with demand.

Boots have completely sold out of surgical masks online, with their website saying they "won’t be receiving any more stock".

It comes as coronavirus fears were sparked when medics in hazmat suits were seen treating an unwell hotel guest in York.

And while some people are wearing the masks themselves, it has been claimed some customers were even posting the masks back to China.

Mr Bhabhani added: "Some people I spoke to, they were from China, apparently they didn't have any stock there.

"So some people bought 15, some bought 20, and they’re going to travel back there in a week or two, and will take it back with them as a precaution for their families."

But no matter where you buy them, experts say these masks do little to stop the spread of the potentially deadly coronavirus.

Jonathan Ball, Professor of Molecular Virology, Nottingham University, said: "Unfortunately, the evidence in the literature, the scientific literature, is that in the community setting, for the general public, these face masks aren’t very effective at all.

"The reasons for that are unclear. But, it’s probably to do with the fact that, firstly, people wear them for too long – so they stop them being effective.

"And, also, they’re not properly trained in putting the face masks on and, more importantly, taking them off.

"And so, there’s always a risk that they can touch their mouth, their nose, their eyes and any virus that is on the face mask or, indeed on their hands can then be transferred."

Boots said they were unable to comment on sales numbers.

A Boots spokesperson said: "The best way to help prevent catching a virus is by making sure you regularly wash your hands with soap, and avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth to prevent transmission from surfaces, especially after blowing your nose, sneezing and coughing.

"Antiviral hand foams and gel can also be useful when you are out and about.

"Surgical face masks are normally available on request from Boots stores and customers can order from our pharmacy counters, depending on stock availability.

"All our pharmacists have the latest public health advice on coronavirus and can offer advice on the best way to stay healthy this winter.”

The new coronavirus is believed to have originated late last year in a food market in the Chinese city of Wuhan that was illegally selling wildlife.

Health experts think it may have originated in bats and then passed to humans, possibly via another animal species.

It can be transmitted from person to person, although it is not clear how easily that happens.

Most cases so far are in people who have been in Wuhan, family members of those infected, or medical workers.

Although there have been a handful of confirmed cases of people who haven't visited China.

Transmission is most likely through close contact with an infected person via particles in the air from coughing or sneezing, or by someone touching an infected person or object with the virus on it and then touching their mouth, nose or eyes.

In order to reduce the likelihood of transmission, the WHO recommends that people frequently wash their hands, cover their mouth and nose when sneezing or coughing, and avoid close contact with those who are sick.

Authorities have said that those who develop symptoms such as coughing and fever who have been in China in the last 14 days should call ahead to a healthcare professional to establish if they need to be tested.

It comes as British health officials prepare to evacuate Brits stranded in the crisis-hit country.

A plane was initially booked to evacuate hundreds of expats from the ground zero region today but was blocked from leaving after officials failed to get clearance from Chinese authorities.

Those evacuated from Wuhan will be quarantined for up to 14 days at an NHS facility in the North West, it's reported.

It comes as British Airways suspended all flights to and from mainland China where up to 200 Brits are stranded.