Dog lovers in China buy face masks for dogs over Coronavirus fears 
 CHINESE dog owners are rushing to buy face masks for their pooches as experts warn pets could also catch the deadly Coronavirus.

The virus has already killed 170 people - and now it is feared pets could catch it too.

One online seller from Beijing told Mail Online he is selling more special masks than ever before.

The news comes after China's top expert for infectious diseases warned pets could be infected by Coronavirus.

So far, it has spread to 21 countries and regions and infected more than 7,900 people.

However the World Health Organisation claims it has not seen any evidence of the virus being passed onto cats or dogs.

Zhou Tianxiao, 33, started selling special masks for dogs in 2018 to help protect them from air pollution.

But since the coronavirus broke out in Wuhan earlier this month, Mr Zhou has gone from selling 150 masks a month to at least 50 a day.

He said: "Most [dogs] have started to wear [masks]. Because there is this virus, people pay more attention to their health and their pets' health."

He sells the masks for 49 yuan (£5.40) for a pack of three.

He added: "[The dog masks] might not be as professional as the medical masks made for humans, but they are functional.

"Their main purposes are to block out smog, stop dogs from eating or licking food on the floor and prevent them from being exposed to the virus."

Prof. Li Lanjuan, a member of the senior expert team from China's National Health Commission, said: "In this epidemic season, pet owners should strengthen their management of their pets.

"If your dogs run around outside and come to contact with the outbreak or people infected with the virus, then your pets should also be put in quarantine.

"Because the epidemic spreads between mammals, therefore we should take precaution against other mammals."

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.