Russia closes its 2,600-mile border with China as virus death toll hits 170 
 RUSSIA announced today it was closing its land border with China to stop coronavirus spreading to its country.

The drastic measure was announced by Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin after every corner of China was confirmed to have cases of the highly contagious disease.

Mr Mishustin said it was necessary because the country “had to do everything it could to protect its people”.

He issued the decree which ordered the 2,600-mile land border with China closed starting from Friday.

Russian authorities said the closure would be extended until March 1.

Train traffic between the countries was halted except for one train connecting Moscow and Beijing.

But no decision has been made about air traffic between Russia and China.

Some countries have reduced flights and airlines have halted them because of the new virus that has sickened thousands in central China.

Russia has not confirmed any cases of the virus.

Earlier this week, Russian authorities blocked tourist groups from China from entering the country.

Global airlines on Wednesday suspended or scaled back more direct flights to China's major cities amid an increase in travel warnings and decline in demand from passengers due to a growing outbreak of coronavirus.

Cases have been confirmed in all 34 of China's major regions, after the National Health Commission said today that a person in the southwestern frontier region of Tibet had developed the disease.

Chinese officials have now confirmed almost 8,200 cases and 170 deaths from the virus that spreads through droplets from coughs and sneezes.

The coronavirus originated in Wuhan, its province Hube, and other surrounding provinces in central China.

But it the virus has spread rapidly over the past two weeks thanks in part to the mass travel carried out by millions of citizens in the run-up to the Lunar New Year.

Most cases have been in China but more than 100 have appeared in about 20 other countries and territories, including the US, Canada, Australia France and Germany.

Britain says a delayed repatriation flight for 200 U.K. nationals in Wuhan will take off from the Chinese city on Friday.

Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab says Chinese authorities have confirmed that the evacuation flight can leave at 0500 local time.

The UK government chartered plane had been due to return to Britain on Thursday, but the flight was delayed because permissions from the Chinese government had not come through.

The returning Britons will be quarantined for 14 days on arrival.