Rand Paul to 'insist' on whistleblower question blocked by John Roberts 
 Sen. Rand Paul Randal (Rand) Howard PaulSenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session John Roberts blocks Rand Paul's question on whistleblower Live coverage: Senators query impeachment managers, Trump defense MORE (R-Ky.) on Thursday will try to force Chief Justice John Roberts to read out loud a question regarding the anonymous whistleblower at the center of the impeachment inquiry.

Paul’s strategy, outlined on Twitter by his spokesman, will escalate a standoff between the two men on the Senate floor after much behind-the-scenes haggling.

“Senator Paul will insist on his question being asked during today’s trial. Uncertain of what will occur on the Senate floor, but American people deserve to know how this all came about...,” Sergio Gor, a spokesman for Pail tweeted.

Paul’s office indicated in a subsequent release that they were unsure whether the effort would be successful, but said “Paul believes it is crucial the American people get the full story on what started the Democrats’ push to impeach President Donald Trump Donald John TrumpDemocrats outraged over White House lawyer's claim that some foreign involvement in elections is acceptable Senators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session White House announces task force to monitor coronavirus MORE.”

A source confirmed Wednesday that Roberts has indicated he would not read a question from Paul regarding the whistleblower.

The question from Paul is expected to name the individual. Because Roberts is responsible for reading the questions aloud, that would put him in the position of publicly outing the person on the floor of the Senate.

The whistleblower has been a focus of GOP criticism for months, with Trump last year saying the individual was "close to a spy."

Conservatives used a series of questions on Wednesday to try to shed new information on the whistleblower.

GOP Sens. Mike Lee Michael (Mike) Shumway LeeJohn Roberts blocks Rand Paul's question on whistleblower Live coverage: Senators query impeachment managers, Trump defense The self-fulfilling Iran prophecy MORE (Utah), Ted Cruz Rafael (Ted) Edward CruzTed Cruz clarifies after Lev Parnas's lawyer calls senator's tweet 'fake news' John Roberts blocks Rand Paul's question on whistleblower Dershowitz: If President does something to win election, it's OK unless it's illegal MORE (Texas) and Josh Hawley Joshua (Josh) David HawleyJohn Roberts blocks Rand Paul's question on whistleblower Democratic senator to force vote requiring Roberts to weigh in on witnesses GOP predicts Roberts won't cast tie-breaking vote on witnesses MORE (Mo.) asked for details on who the whistleblower might have worked with.

Roughly 50 minutes later, Cruz, Hawley and Sen. Jerry Moran Gerald (Jerry) MoranJohn Roberts blocks Rand Paul's question on whistleblower Live coverage: Senators query impeachment managers, Trump defense The Hill's Morning Report - Trump defense rests, GOP struggles to bar witnesses MORE (R-Kan.) asked the House managers if the whistleblower worked for or with former Vice President Joe Biden Joe BidenSenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session Sanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial MORE.

None of those questions revealed the individual's identity.

Some GOP senators indicated they were not supportive of questions that would name the whistleblower.

Sen. John Thune John Randolph ThuneJohn Roberts blocks Rand Paul's question on whistleblower Senate GOP could move to quick Trump acquittal vote Live coverage: Senators query impeachment managers, Trump defense MORE (S.D.), the No. 2 Republican senator, suggested that GOP leadership had not been involved in rejecting questions, but that he did not expect the whistleblower to be named on the floor during the impeachment trial.

"I don't think that happens, and I guess I would hope that it doesn't," he told reporters Wednesday.

Sen. Lindsey Graham Lindsey Olin GrahamOvernight Defense: Bolton, GOP senators see close ties challenged | Republicans fume over Dem maneuver on Iran bills |Trump criticizes Democrats over war powers vote Bolton, GOP senators see their close ties challenged Top Democrat: Impeachment verdict is 'preordained' MORE (R-S.C.) told reporters on Thursday that he didn’t think the impeachment trial was the setting for Paul’s whistleblower fight.

“Not in this environment,” he said, asked if he thought the question was a good idea.