China 'is cremating bodies in secret to hide true extent of death toll' 
 A DISTURBING new report claims that China is cremating bodies in secret, suggesting the official coronavirus death toll is "way too low".

Cases of the killer virus have tripled in just three days — with the strain infecting more people in China than SARS did.

The official death toll from coronavirus in China has skyrocketed to 170, with 7711 cases now reported in the country as of Thursday — an increase of 38 deaths and 1737 cases in just 24 hours.

But now doubts have been raised about the official death toll.

In a bold claim, Chinese-language news outlet Initium believe that Chinese authorities have been cremating bodies in secret.

This week, they interviewed people working at local cremation centres in Wuhan — where the virus originated from — who said bodies were being sent directly from hospitals without being properly identified and added to the official record.

“There are reasons to remain sceptical about what China has been sharing with the world," said DW News East Asia correspondent William Yang.

"Because while they have been more transparent about certain things related to the virus, they continue to be sketchy and unreliable in other aspects."

Their investigation comes after coronavirus cases jumped to 5974 on Wednesday — a 30 percent increase in infections in a day — surpassing the 5327 people diagnosed with SARS.

Mr Yang added how the current death toll of 170 is "way too low" for what it should be, adding how the cremation claim "makes sense".

He continued: "Credible Chinese media outlet Initium interviewed people working at local cremation centres, confirming that many dead bodies were sent directly from the hospitals to the cremation centres without properly identifying these patients.

"This means there are patients who died from the virus, but were not added to the official record."

Just last week, The Guardian reported how Chinese hospitals were not testing patients for the virus, and at least one family was pressured into a cremation.

Two doctors reportedly told the family that the patient had likely contracted coronavirus, but provided no documentation.

There are also damning stories from Wuhan of medics failing to test patients who were clearly showing signs of the illness.

Kyle Hui told the New York Times that despite his stepmother having the correct symptoms ⁠— including a cough and a fever ⁠— doctors wearing hazmat suits refused to test her for the virus.

Subsequently, she died on January 15 with Mr Hui arguing how her death certificate says "severe pneumonia" rather than coronavirus.

And while she has not been recorded as one of the official victims of the bug, he claims how doctors told him to cremate his stepmother's body because they suspected she had the disease.

Scientists say there are still many questions to be answered about the new virus, including just how easily it spreads and how severe it is.

World health officials expressed “great concern” on Wednesday that the virus is starting to spread between people outside of China.