Turbulent times ahead for air travellers as carriers cancel China flights 
 International air travellers and ticketing agents are in for a turbulent time in the weeks ahead as airlines around the world react to the coronavirus epidemic by cancelling or limiting flights to and from the Chinese mainland.
Lufthansa, British Airways, Air Canada and Indonesia’s Lion Air have cancelled all of their flights, while United Airlines, American Airlines, IndiGo, Finnair, Delta Air Lines and Jetstar Asia have significantly reduced their services.
“It’s going to be pretty bad for travel agencies. We’ve had a lot of cancellations. Everyone is afraid of coming to China,” said Annabelle Auger from Travel Stone in Beijing.
“Many of our European clients are very worried because of the media coverage they’ve seen. Still, people are willing to wait and see for a few weeks to see how things go,” she said.
For foreigners looking to leave China, Auger said they should contact their embassy to find out about repatriation flights.
“The situation is very unclear, so it’s difficult to give any general recommendations,” she said.


Already this week, the embassies of the United States, Japan, South Korea and Britain have cleared flights to evacuate their nationals from Hubei, the central China province at the heart of the outbreak.
Auger said she and her colleagues had been busy rearranging flights for China-based foreigners who had gone away for the holidays.
“The schools are closed, so families with children abroad are thinking, ‘OK, let’s extend our stay for another week’,” she said.
Politics may have stalled information in coronavirus crisis, scientist says
The Beijing government said on Monday it would extend the Lunar New Year holiday until Sunday to help stop the spread of the disease, while school breaks have also been extended.
Another travel agent in Beijing, who asked not to be named, said the virus outbreak had yet to have a significant impact on business but concerns were growing.
“We are a bit worried that things may get difficult in the coming months,” she said. “But we trust that the government is doing all it can and will take the appropriate measures to solve the problems.”


Zhu Tao, director of the flight standards department at the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC), said at a press conference in Beijing on Thursday that the relevant authorities were working closely with airlines to help Chinese nationals trapped overseas to get home.
The government had already chartered flights from Japan, Myanmar and South Korea to bring Chinese nationals back to Hubei, he said.
While all flights out of Hubei have been suspended since last week, Zhu said air transport was playing its part in fighting the disease.
As of Wednesday, the CAAC had sent 86 flights carrying 5,129 medical workers and 115,000 items of equipment and other supplies into Wuhan, he said.
Wu Zunyou, the chief epidemiologist at the China Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, said that efforts to prevent the coronavirus spreading outside the country had been successful, as only about 1 per cent of the confirmed infections were outside China.


Despite the flight cancellations, Beijing’s Capital International Airport was operating as normal on Thursday.
Andre Muchanga, a student from Abu Dhabi at the Beijing Institute of Technology, said he made a late decision to fly home.
“I decided to buy my ticket last night,” he said. “At school, our dormitory is almost completely empty. I knocked on a friend’s door last night and found there was no one there, so I decided I better just go home and spend some time with my family.”
He said he decided not to buy a return flight as it he did not know when his classes would resume.
Signs at check-in counters reminded passengers who had travelled to Hubei or had a Hubei address to put themselves in isolation for 14 days.


While flights out of Hubei have been stopped, there was still plenty of inbound traffic.
“The number of domestic inbound travellers seems pretty normal for this time of year,” a man working on an information desk at Capital airport said.
“It’s the sixth day of the Lunar New Year. Lots of people have to return to work.”
An Air China employee, surnamed Hu, said that the airport had stepped up its disinfecting and general cleaning work. Body temperature checks had been installed at all access points and employees had been told to wear masks, he said.
“I don’t mind working during the Lunar New Year holiday,” he said. “I’m not afraid of the virus, I’m here to serve the people.”
Additional reporting by Jun Mai

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

More from South China Morning Post:Life in the time of coronavirus: how Wuhan made it through a week in lockdownChina faces bigger epidemic than Sars in ‘complicated and grave’ coronavirus outbreakPolitics may have stalled information in Wuhan coronavirus crisis, scientist saysChina coronavirus: first city health chief sacked as death toll climbs to 170For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.