More than 6,000 people are trapped on a cruise ship in Italy after a woman was suspected of having the coronavirus 
 More than 6,000 passengers are trapped on a cruise ship at an Italian port near Rome while doctors determine whether two passengers have the coronavirus.

The Costa Smeralda, operated by Costa Cruises, arrived in Civitavecchia, Italy, northwest of Rome, on Friday. It was supposed to be the end of a weeklong cruise that departed Civitavecchia on January 23, according to the company.

"A 54-year-old female Chinese national from Macau was placed in isolation in Costa Smeralda's shipboard hospital last night along with her traveling companion, in accordance with health protocols," a statement from the cruise company said. "As soon as the suspected case was detected, the medical team on board immediately activated all the relevant health procedures to promptly isolate and manage clinical conditions."

Several passengers posting to Twitter said they initially didn't know why they weren't being allowed to leave the ship. Eventually they started reading the news online to find out.

One Twitter user who appeared to be on the vessel posted photos of people sitting on the floor with their suitcases with the caption, written in Italian, "judge this yourself." When he first posted photos, at about noon local time, he said he didn't know why they were trapped on the vessel.

Another user, with the name Marina Guerrero, posted a video from inside.

The cruise ship's itinerary included La Spezia and Savona in Italy; Marseilles in France; and Barcelona and Palma de Mallorca in Spain. Costa Smeralda, Costa Cruises' first cruise ship powered by liquified natural gas, entered service only last month. The ship has a guest capacity of 6,554 and 1,678 crew members.

A local news outlet reported that Costa Cruises had canceled nine cruises from China as a precautionary measure.

"It is our utmost priority to ensure the health and safety of passengers and crew," the statement said. "The company is at complete disposal of the health authority and their indication will be strictly applied. Costa Cruises continues to apply relevant national policies and epidemic protocols, as per World Health Organization (WHO) and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) indications."

Claudia Romeo assisted with translation in this article.