Hong Kong universities suspend classes until March, and schools could soon follow 
 Two Hong Kong universities have suspended classes on campus until early March in response to the growing threat from the China coronavirus, while education officials have discussed whether to extend the suspension of classes for the city’s schools.
On Thursday, Baptist University and the University of Hong Kong (HKU) wrote to students and staff telling them classes would be suspended until March 2.
BaptistU had already extended the Lunar New Year holiday for two weeks, but in an email said the spread of the virus had got worse, and it had taken the decision out of concern for the health and well-being of students and staff.
“All students should not come back to the campus until March 2, when on-campus classes are supposed to resume,” Roland Chin Tai-hong, the university president, said.
“For residents in halls … the university will further advise you on the appropriate time to come back when all precautionary arrangements are fully in place while allowing you sufficient time for self-quarantine.”


In the meantime, Chin said e-learning would be put in place during the suspension of lessons.
The university also urged students and staff to avoid travelling to the mainland, as any member of the university who had been to the mainland would be required to self-quarantine for 14 days before returning to campus.
HKU vice-president Ian Holliday said it had decided it needed more time before teaching on campus could resume.
“Having continuously received advice from medical experts, we now come to the view that we will need more time before allowing all campus teaching to resume,” he wrote.
Holliday added that online teaching and learning would take place between February 3 and 17, while the two weeks after that would be in recess.


On Monday, City University said classes on campus would be suspended until further notice, but online teaching would begin from February 7.
The five other publicly funded universities have yet to say whether lessons would be suspended further, after previously announcing the extension of the holiday until February 17.
In Macau, the government announced the suspension of classes for kindergartens, primary, secondary schools and tertiary institutions until further notice, with a specific date to be announced one week before lessons resume. It had previously extended the holiday until February 10.
Last week, the Hong Kong government said kindergartens, primary and secondary schools would have their break extended until February 17, but calls for a further suspension of classes have grown over the past few days.


Education sector lawmaker and vice-president of the pro-democracy Professional Teachers’ Union, Ip Kin-yuen, wrote to Secretary for Education Kevin Yeung Yun-hung on Thursday, suggesting the break be extended until there was no further risk of a possible community outbreak in the city.
The pro-establishment Hong Kong Federation of Education Workers also said the government should have a clear plan on the criteria and preparations if a further suspension was required.
Chu Wai-lam, principal of Fung Kai No 1 Primary School in Sheung Shui, a school near the border with the mainland which has about half of its 1,100 pupils attending from across the border, also said the government should consider suspending lessons for at least one more week, until February 24.
“As the incubation period of the [virus] is 14 days, and as many students originally planned to return to Hong Kong after the Lunar New Year holiday before February 4, if there is a longer period of time to observe, it’d set our minds at ease,” he said.
The Education Bureau said Yeung and Undersecretary for Education Choi Yuk-lin met primary and secondary school principals on Thursday, and understood their concern on class suspension arrangements. The bureau would keep close contact with the sector and make further announcements when suitable, it said.
For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.