Virus risk to Gold Coast flight passengers 
 Passengers of a Melbourne-Gold Coast TigerAir flight on Monday are at risk of coronavirus infection

Passengers on a Tiger Air flight on Monday are being contacted by the state government over fears they may have contracted the deadly coronavirus.

Two Chinese nationals now confirmed to be infected with the virus were on board Tiger Air flight TT566 from Melbourne to the Gold Coast on Monday.

They were part of a tour group who had come from the Chinese city of Wuhan.

Queensland Health confirmed the state's second case of coronavirus infection late on Thursday as a 42-year-old woman.

The government is now attempting to make contact with the 171 passengers aboard Monday evening's flight.

Those sitting in rows nine to 3 are at the most serious risk of contracting the virus, according to chief medical officer Dr Jeanette Young.

She said anyone who spent two hours or more exposed to an infectious person in a confined space could be at risk. The flight time from Melbourne to the Gold Coast is about two hours.

The development came as Queensland Health Minister Steven Miles approved a public health emergency order giving authorities the power to detain suspected coronavirus victims, the Courier-Mail reported.

Under the order Dr Young can give written orders telling people to stay at a particular place, and authorities can use reasonable force on those who don't comply.

Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk and senior ministers opted not to travel to a Labor caucus meeting in the Gold Coast hinterland so they could manage the health situation, the newspaper reported.

A total of 41 people across Queensland were tested for coronavirus on Thursday.

Meanwhile, there's no sign of illness in China's women's soccer team, who will remain holed up in a Brisbane hotel until Wednesday to ensure they are not carrying the virus.

The team are scheduled to play three matches in Australia over the next fortnight.

One of those is against the Matildas, which is scheduled for February 9.