Italian cruise ship with 7000 on board locked down amid coronavirus scare 
 An initial plan to disembark more than 1000 passengers who had been due to leave the ship on Thursday morning was put on hold after Civitavecchia mayor Ernesto Tedesco protested.
“Are you mad? Who gave you the order to disembark? I’ll take you all to court,” he shouted at officials, after driving to the port in his Fiat 500, according to the Repubblica newspaper.
He called for a continued lockdown of the ship pending full tests. The ship will be held in port for another 24 hours, Rai television reported.
1000 passengers had been due to leave the ship on Thursday morning, but were kept on board.Credit:AP
The vessel is currently the only ship docked in the city's port, with a limited security presence around it. Passengers can be seen walking on the decks, even as empty buses wait below for an eventual disembarkation. Soft jazz can be heard playing on board.

A medical team from a Rome hospital earlier on Thursday examined the patient, who demonstrated fever and respiratory symptoms, according to the Italian Coast Guard. Further operations on the ship "will be decided later," a Coast Guard spokesman said.
Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte told reporters during a visit to Bulgaria that Italy is adopting all measures to tackle risks linked to the virus, adding that "there is no need to spread alarmist information or to fuel any form of panic."
Loading
"As soon as the suspected case emerged, medical staff on board immediately activated the necessary health procedures," Carnival's Italian unit Costa Crociere said in a statement. "Our priority is to guarantee the health and safety of our guests and team."
Italian media reported that passengers have been protesting the lockdown of the ship and lack of information.

"We don't have information, no internet, because on the ship it doesn't work," Ansa new agency cited Italian passenger Liborio Iervolino as saying.
The vessel was bound for La Spezia in the Liguria region, with 1,000 crew and 6,000 passengers, 750 of whom came from China, a port spokesman said.
Bloomberg, Reuters