Indoor fishing and face mask poker keep coronavirus 'captives' busy 
 As China continues to grapple with the coronavirus crisis, a fresh problem is emerging for the millions of citizens who remain under quarantine – boredom.

Residents trapped in Wuhan and other cities on lock-down have been forced to come up with creative ways to combat the tedium of being stuck at home for days on end.

Videos on social media show people passing the time by fishing indoors, playing poker with face masks and using household items to engage in some friendly competition. .

Footage shows a man re-creating snooker with chopsticks and tomatoes, while another shows a family enjoying a game of ring toss with a hoop and bottles of wine.

Under Chinese censorship laws, popular social media platforms like Twitter are banned.

However, thousands have risked flouting the rules to let the world know how they are coping with the crisis.

American-based journalist Jane Li has lifted dozens of videos from Chinese apps which show how humour has prevailed over panic and desperation.

People are even getting their cats involved with one video showing kids playing cards with their pet kitten.

The Chinese version of TikTok, Douyin, has blown up with clips of people striking tourist poses from different corners of their home under the hashtag #travelsinmyflat.

Another video that was widely circulated showed a group of friends gambling with face masks, which are in short supply across China and Hong Kong due to the severity of the epidemic

In one heart warming clip, residents of Wuhan high-rise apartment buildings sang the national anthem and other songs from their balconies and windows.

The words ‘Rise up, rise up, rise up!’ echoed between the complex of towers, while others could be heard chanting ‘Jiayou’ – a phrase used to lift people up.

Transport links have completely shut down in the city. where the coronavirus emerged at a seafood market in December.

People under quarantine have been filmed trying to escape amid fears food and medical supplies are running out.

The city is home to 11 million people but has been described as a ‘ghost town’ with images showing deserted streets and ransacked supermarket shelves.

People are so bored they have resorted to counting the few cars that can be seen on the streets, according to one Twitter user.

In an equally desperate effort to pass the time, some 40 million people tuned in to the live-streams of two new hospitals rapidly being built in Wuhan.

The live-stream offered little more than a view of the construction site, with some workers and cranes moving about in the distance.

Despite the lack of any visible drama the video has become one of the most popular live-streamed clips of all.

20 cities in Hubei, the epicentre of the outbreak, are on indefinite lock-down.

Authorities across the country have taken drastic steps to prevent the spread of the disease, with many shutting down tourist hot-spots, restaurants and theatres.

Shanghai’s Disneyland is closed and several major airlines have suspended flights to mainland China.

The crisis is far from over with Chinese authorities announcing today that there have been more than 160 deaths and 7,000 cases world wide.

India and the Philippines are the latest nations to reveal they have had cases of the deadly disease, along with Japan, Thailand, Germany, Canada and the US.