The Hill's 12:30 Report: Senate approaches crucial vote on witnesses 
 To view past editions of The Hill's 12:30 Report, click here: http://bit.ly/1M1mIfw

To receive The Hill's 12:30 Report in your inbox, please sign up here: http://bit.ly/1Tt4hqN

--> A midday take on what's happening in politics and how to have a sense of humor about it.*

The Hill's 12:30 Report: Last day of impeachment questions | Senate heads to crucial vote on witnesses | McConnell, Romney compete for influence | GOP confident they have votes to block witnesses | Dershowitz says media 'distorted' views on presidential power | Why Team Biden sees Bloomberg as a threat | Trump to hold rally in Iowa tonight | Bloomberg claims dogs love him in new ad | Super Bowl food specials

'[We] feel comfortable using legal jargon in everyday life!':

Senators are concluding the marathon question-and-answer portion of the Senate impeachment trial against President Trump Donald John TrumpDemocrats outraged over White House lawyer's claim that some foreign involvement in elections is acceptable Senators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session White House announces task force to monitor coronavirus MORE.

Senators took the reins in the impeachment trial and asked questions of both the House impeachment managers and the White House defense team to try to poke holes in the other party's case. http://bit.ly/2tg9AaQ

In 10 hours: Senators asked more than 90 questions.

It's Thursday. I'm Cate Martel with a quick recap of the morning and what's coming up. Send comments, story ideas and events for our radar to cmartel@thehill.com -- and follow along on Twitter @CateMartel  and Facebook.

Did someone forward this to you? Want your own copy? Sign up here to receive The Hill's 12:30 Report in your inbox daily: http://bit.ly/2kjMNnn

Via The Hill's Alexander Bolton, "the fight over calling additional witnesses at President Trump's impeachment trial has turned into a struggle for influence between Mitch McConnell Addison (Mitch) Mitchell McConnellDemocratic senator to force vote requiring Roberts to weigh in on witnesses Evangelical pastor: Jesus would have 'beat the crap' out of John Bolton Bolton's lawyer disputes NSC assessment that manuscript contains classified information MORE and Mitt Romney Willard (Mitt) Mitt RomneySenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session Overnight Defense: Bolton, GOP senators see close ties challenged | Republicans fume over Dem maneuver on Iran bills |Trump criticizes Democrats over war powers vote GOP predicts Roberts won't cast tie-breaking vote on witnesses MORE." http://bit.ly/36EJtrF

From McConnell's perspective: "McConnell has staked his re-election to a seventh term on helping Trump implement his agenda and has made clear that he is closely coordinating trial strategy with the White House." He is against hearing from new witnesses.

From Romney's perspective: "Romney doesn't have the immediate pressure of re-election, and has told allies that he's more interested in the role of elder statesman than climbing the Senate's power ladder. [He] made it clear he thought the Senate should hear from former national security adviser John Bolton John BoltonSenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session Democratic senator to force vote requiring Roberts to weigh in on witnesses Overnight Defense: Bolton, GOP senators see close ties challenged | Republicans fume over Dem maneuver on Iran bills |Trump criticizes Democrats over war powers vote MORE and possibly other witnesses in the trial."

And it appears we have a winner:

It appears that Senate Majority Leader McConnell (R-Ky.) has won the battle of blocking any additional witnesses by convincing a few senators that it would be a mistake. GOP senators seem confidant they have enough votes.  http://bit.ly/2RCszFR

WHEN THE TRIAL COULD COME TO A CLOSE:

As soon as Friday (!), assuming McConnell can pull together 51 votes to block witnesses from testifying. https://nyti.ms/38VGexl

SPOTTED -- WHO'S 'GOT MILK' ON THE SENATE FLOOR:

Sen. Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth Ann WarrenSanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Weld bets on New Hampshire to fuel long shot bid against Trump MORE (D-Mass.) was also spotted drinking milk during the trial. http://bit.ly/2GDmhzi

Here's a photo of a press scrum: Notice Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer Charles (Chuck) Ellis SchumerTed Cruz clarifies after Lev Parnas's lawyer calls senator's tweet 'fake news' House Democrats unveil 0B infrastructure plan Democrats to unveil infrastructure plan with eye on 2020 elections MORE (D-N.Y.) waiting on the right: http://bit.ly/36EI5Ft

Here's a list of the six impeachment questions Romney plans to ask: http://bit.ly/2RFeVC0

Oh this is very cool:

Oh hey: Lev Parnas was seen at the airport yesterday. Photo: http://bit.ly/2u2xNle

Alan Dershowitz Alan Morton DershowitzBolton, GOP senators see their close ties challenged Dershowitz: If President does something to win election, it's OK unless it's illegal Live coverage: Senators query impeachment managers, Trump defense MORE v. the media:

Harvard Law professor emeritus Alan Dershowitz tried to clarify his argument during yesterday's impeachment trial and accused media outlets of "willfully [distorting]" his argument about presidential power. http://bit.ly/2RDD1No

His controversial line yesterday: "If a president does something which he believes will help him get elected in the public interest, that cannot be the kind of quid pro quo that results in impeachment," Dershowitz said about the legal boundaries of a president.

Dershowitz's defense this morning: "They characterized my argument as if I had said that if a president believes that his reelection was in the national interest, he can do anything. I said nothing like that, as anyone who actually heard what I said can attest." Read his full tweets: http://bit.ly/2uOXcz2

ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL

What is keeping Joe Biden Joe BidenSenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session Sanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial MORE allies up at night:

Via The Hill's Jonathan Easley and Amie Parnes, allies of former Vice President Joe Biden are getting nervous about former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg Michael Rubens BloombergWarren gets endorsements from 45 Michigan officeholders, activists Poll: Most Democratic voters say billionaires are out of touch with average American The Hill's 12:30 Report: Impeachment trial moves to senators' questions MORE because his Super Tuesday strategy could take votes away from Biden's centrist message. http://bit.ly/3aU4vWp

Who could be helped by this: Sen. Bernie Sanders Bernie SandersSanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Weld bets on New Hampshire to fuel long shot bid against Trump MORE (I-Vt.)

How this could play out: "Biden's allies believe he's best positioned to go one-on-one with Sanders and that he'll have earned that right if he posts strong showings in Iowa and New Hampshire, where he's currently battling former South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg and Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) to be the party's centrist standard-bearer. But some in Biden World are growing frustrated that Bloomberg will be waiting for him on the other side."

MEANWHILE -- WHY IOWA IS ESPECIALLY CRUCIAL FOR SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MASS.):

Overheard on the C-SPAN livestream -- Biden asked a man whose father has cancer if he could keep in touch about his condition.:

Former Vice President Joe Biden spoke one-on-one with crowd-goers following his community event in Council Bluffs, Iowa. Here's an interesting back and forth:

Question from an Iowan: "My father has cancer, and I want to ask what you might do as president to help with cancer research."

Biden then briefly explained the Biden Cancer Initiative to the main.

Biden: "You outta let me know your name and number and make sure your dad is getting the best care possible because not all docs are created equal. The bad part is that I know them all. I've worked with them."

Biden asked what kind of cancer, and the two discussed his father's diagnosis.

Biden: "Mayo's great. Mind if we call you?"

An aide then got the man's contact information.

Watch the back and forth -- it starts at 1:12:00: https://cs.pn/2vzqMZC

Announced this a.m. -- I'll allow it.:

Via The Hill's Nathaniel Weixel, "States will have the ability to scale back Medicaid spending by converting part of their Medicaid funding into a block grant under a new Trump administration program announced Thursday." http://bit.ly/2u3fufM

An entertaining campaign ad -- what did I just watch...?:

The House and Senate are in.

10:30 a.m. EST: Vice President Pence speaks at an Evangelicals for Trump event in Sioux City, Iowa.

11:30 – 12:30 p.m. EST: First and last votes in the House. The House's full schedule today: http://bit.ly/2RZe1Pu

1 p.m. EST: The Senate meets to continue the impeachment trial. The Senate's full schedule today: http://bit.ly/3aYP0ge

2:30 p.m. EST: Vice President Pence speaks at a Veterans for Trump event in Council Bluffs, Iowa.

12:20 a.m. EST: President Trump gets back to the White House.

10 a.m. EST: White House press briefing with Senior Counselor Kellyanne Conway Kellyanne Elizabeth ConwayTrump rallies supporters for recently converted Republican Jefferson Van Drew George Conway: Witness missing from impeachment trial is Trump Kellyanne Conway knocks Biden, talks up Sanders in Wash Post op-ed MORE, Office of National Drug Control Policy Director Jim Carroll and Assistant Secretary of Public Health ADM Brett Giroir. Livestream: http://bit.ly/2GDsV90

8 p.m. EST: President Trump holds a campaign rally in Des Moines. Vice President Pence also gives remarks. Livestream: https://cs.pn/37GjfGC

Tuesday: President Trump delivers the State of the Union address.

NOW FOR THE FUN STUFF...

Sunday is the day to break New Year's resolutions!:

Via Food and Wine, here's a list of restaurant deals for the Super Bowl on Sunday. The list: http://bit.ly/392KFH5

And because you made it this far, here's a new "congressman" on Capitol Hill ;) That tie!!: http://bit.ly/2RVgKt6