Brits shun Amazon and eBay products from China over coronavirus fears and consider BLEACHING parcels 
 TERRIFIED Brits are refusing to buy products from internet giants Amazon, Wish and eBay over fears they will catch the deadly coronavirus.

Concerned shoppers have stopped purchasing anything from sellers that ship from China to the UK in case their goods are covered in the bug.

Some are even considering bleaching any parcels that arrive through their front door in hope of killing off any trace of coronavirus, which has so far claimed at least 170 lives.

Gillian Sneddon, 48, from Poole, Dorset, said: “I’ve just received a parcel from Wish that I ordered a few weeks ago and I don’t even want to touch it, let alone open it.”

 “It's a packet of icing nozzles that have come from somewhere in China, so I’m terrified they've got traces of coronavirus on them.”

“I’m even considering putting on rubber gloves and getting the bleach out.”

Sharing her same fear on social media, Sophie Mary from Nottingham tweeted: “I tell you what, I’ll not be ordering anything that comes from China at the moment.”

“Be careful what you’re ordering and check where it is being shipped from. Don’t fancy getting this coronavirus.”

Another added: “If the coronavirus is spreading in China I’m not ordering from Amazon for a while....a lot of the stuff I get says 'Made In China.”

A third said: “Heads up if your ordering from China via Amazon, Facebook or other sites….”

“There is no guarantee that the coronavirus has not been transported via import shipping, via containment boxes and crates. handle these items with care, via gloves, masks and if you can, bleach them.”

Public Health England has failed to respond when contacted. The Sun have also contacted Amazon, eBay and Wish for comment.

Increased fear is being felt across the globe as cases of the killer virus triple in just three days – infecting more people in China that the SARS pandemic.

The outbreak has affected nearly 8,000 people in more than a dozen across the world - with fears it could hit its peak in just 10 days.

What we know about coronavirus so far...

There are no confirmed coronavirus cases in the UK, but 130 have been tested since returning from the centre of the outbreak, Wuhan.

Some hundreds of Brits have been left stranded in the coronavirus epicentre after a plane booked to evacuate has been blocked from leaving China.

The UK government had planned to fly the desperate evacuees back to an RAF base at some point today.

However, it is now understood Chinese officials have not granted permission for the flight to depart amid reports the death toll has now hit 170.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "We are doing everything we can to get British people in Wuhan safely back to the UK.

"A number of countries' flights have been unable to take off as planned. We continue working urgently to organise a flight to the UK as soon as possible.

The setback comes as York locals were left terrified after medics in Hazmat suits were seen treating an unwell hotel guest.

Witnesses saw paramedics in protective suits going into a Staycity aparthotel in the city centre yesterday.

The Yorkshire Post reported the man is a Chinese national, but this was unable to be confirmed.

Experts from the World Health Organisation (WHO) are now warning that the virus can spread via objects or surfaces.

"There is evidence that the coronavirus can also be spread via fomites — when the virus survives on inanimate surfaces for a short period of time," said Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, a member of the WHO's emergency committee on the outbreak.

It's a potentially worrying revelation for hospitals, where patients diagnosed and treated for coronavirus may touch chairs, tables, beds, railings and much more.

Experts estimate victims will start suffering symptoms from two to 14 days after contracting the bug - however a small subset of cases suggests that it may be transmissible even before the patient starts to show signs of the virus.

During WHO's Wednesday press conference, they emphasised that it's "very difficult" to quantify how an infection spreads from patients to others.

Despite this additional indicator of pandemic potential, WHO has declined to declare a public health emergency of international concern.

Instead, global health officials praised the containment efforts made by China, but warned the disease is to be taken seriously worldwide.

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.