British families choose to stay in China rather than be separated 
 Two British families trapped at the centre of the coronavirus outbreak have chosen to stay in the country after they were told they could not bring their loved ones with them on an evacuation flight.

After the flight for UK nationals leaving Wuhan was delayed to Friday morning, the Chinese authorities maintained their position that no one with a Chinese passport would be allowed to travel.

Along with not wanting to split their families apart, the families also expressed concerns about contracting the virus on the flight or in the airport.

Matt Raw has lived in Wuhan for the past year with his wife, Ying, and 75-year-old mother, Hazel, who suffers from dementia.

Ying has a UK visitor visa valid until July, but her Chinese passport means she is not allowed on the flight and the family has decided to stay put.

Raw, from Knutsford in Cheshire, said: “My mother is old, and who’s the virus affecting worst? Old people. I would hate for anything to happen to her and I would much rather be somewhere where the virus isn’t.”

However, he said the family had plenty of food to keep them going and enough of his mother’s medication to last at least a couple of months, and had been assured by the FCO that if China does change its stance on the issue, the UK will work with partners to get them onto another flight out the country.

He said his wife had concerns about the safety of the journey and the possibility of contracting the virus from other passengers en route.

A British father and daughter also decided to stay in the country rather than leave behind their wife and mum, who has a Chinese passport.

Previously the father, who does not want to be named, said: “It’s just awful weighing up taking my daughter out and keeping her safe, but leaving my wife behind.”

The family also experienced problems getting hold of the necessary paperwork that would enable them to pass through the roadblocks that have been placed throughout Hubei province to limit movement.

Raw said the FCO sent an email to all British nationals heading to the airport with a letter explaining their situation in Chinese, to help people pass through. But for many, the email ended up in their junk inbox, and he said that on a group chat for Britons in Wuhan, there was much confusion over how to make it to the airport.

Raw said he had found the FCO to be unprepared for the crisis and thought the UK government had “acted far too slowly [...] and they’ve done far too little.”

“The FCO has let us down so badly,” Raw said. “They’ve told us so many things and communicated so badly with us that we just take everything they say with a pinch of salt. We don’t believe anything they say anymore.”

An FCO spokesperson said: “Our priority is to keep British nationals and their family members together and have urgently raised this with the Chinese authorities.”