US grants waivers for Iran nuclear program, announces new sanctions 
 The Trump administration on Thursday announced it was extending waivers for Iran to continue work at its nuclear facilities while also slapping new sanctions on Iranian officials.



Brian Hook, the U.S. special representative for Iran, said the dual actions aim to increase transparency on Tehran’s purported peaceful nuclear activities and punish the agency accused of breaching the 2015 nuclear deal with European countries.

“The United States is renewing for 60 days, four nuclear restrictions on Iran that permit the continuation of non-proliferation projects that constrain Iran’s nuclear activities,” Hook told reporters at the State Department. “We will closely monitor all developments in Iran’s nuclear program and Secretary Pompeo will end these projects as developments warrant.”

The new sanctions, he said, will target the chief agency overseeing nuclear power and its top officer.

“The Atomic Energy Organization of Iran has played a big role in Iran breaching its key nuclear commitments. It has exceeded the limits on its uranium stockpiles and enrichment levels,” Hook said.

Hook called on European nations to join the U.S. in its pressure campaign of sanctions.



“President Trump Donald John TrumpDemocrats outraged over White House lawyer's claim that some foreign involvement in elections is acceptable Senators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session White House announces task force to monitor coronavirus MORE has asked the members of the nuclear deal, what’s left of it since it’s going to start expiring in 8 months, to join the United States and leave the deal and join our foreign policy strategy, which is working,” he said.

Hook on Thursday said the U.S. was “very pleased” by recent statements from U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who suggested replacing the existing nuclear deal with “the Trump deal.”

The three European members left in the 2015 deal -- the U.K., France and Germany -- have initiated the “dispute mechanism” of the agreement, which could lead to U.N. sanctions, in response to Iran’s announcement that it would stop adhering to limitations on producing enriched uranium.

Washington and Tehran narrowly avoided open warfare this month following the U.S. targeted killing of Gen. Qassem Soleimani, a top Iranian general.

A retaliatory strike by Iran on Iraqi bases housing U.S. troops was first described as limited for avoiding loss of life, but it was later revealed that an estimated 50 soldiers suffered traumatic brain injury as a result of the strikes.