Coronavirus: 1st U.S. Human-To-Human Transmission Confirmed Right Before WHO Emergency Meeting 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	Passengers wear protective masks to protect against coronavirus as they arrive on a flight from Asia ... [+] at Los Angeles International Airport on January 29. 
Photo by MARK RALSTON/AFP via Getty ImagesTopline: NBC News reported Thursday that the first human-to-human transmission of coronavirus has been confirmed in Chicago, news that comes as the World Health Organization (WHO) meets to determine whether the virus is an international health emergency.
The Washington Post reported  that the Chicago patient, a woman in her 60s who traveled from Wuhan, China, last month, marking the first time that that coronavirus has spread person-to-person inside the U.S.
The Chicago patient⁠—the 6th in the U.S.⁠—was infected after being in close contact with his wife, according to the Post.    
The head of the WHO reconvened its emergency committee in a meeting to evaluate the crisis Thursday, after declining to declare the outbreak an international health emergency during a meeting January 23.
A global emergency, if declared, would include recommendations to all countries for the prevention and reduction of cross-border spread of the virus, as well as guidelines for worldwide health officials to monitor, prepare and contain any infection, but WHO has no legal authority to sanction countries.
The WHO meeting will also follow earlier reports that the total number of infected cases in China (over 8,100) surpassed the number of people infected with SARS during the 2002-2003 outbreak, with the Chinese death roll reaching 171.
Also Thursday: 7,000 cruise ship passengers and crew are stranded aboard off Italy’s coast as a passenger from Hong Kong was tested for the disease.

Key background: The first case of coronavirus was reported in December. Chinese authorities say the disease broke out in a seafood market in Wuhan,where it was transmitted from an animal, and is now being transmitted between humans. The disease is spread through airborne droplets from coughing and sneezing. Symptoms range from coughing and sneezing to pneumonia and kidney failure in the severest cases; the incubation period is up to 14 days. This week, Australian scientists created the virus in a lab, which could be used to speed up the development of a vaccine and develop a better understanding of the virus. Countries including the U.S., Australia, the U.K., Japan and more have evacuated their citizens from China, while multiple airlines have suspended trips to and from China. Global markets are down as investors react to the virus’ spread, and businesses like Starbucks, Disney, IKEA and others have temporarily closed their doors in affected areas.
Surprising fact: The WHO only rarely declares a disease a “Public Health Emergency of International Concern,”, according to Reuters. WHO has previously used the “international public health emergency” designation for the 2019 ebola outbreak, the 2016 Zika virus, the 2014 polio and ebola outbreak, and the 2009 H1 flu pandemic. 
Further reading: 
Here’s Every State And Country With A Confirmed Coronavirus Case (Lisette Voytko)
Everything You Need To Know About The Wuhan Coronavirus Outbreak (Leah Rosenbaum)
Coronavirus Hits Big Business: These Companies Are Cutting Operations And Restricting Travel To China As Disease Spreads (Sergei Klebnikov)
TikTok Used To Spread Misinformation About The Coronavirus (Dawn Chmielewski)