Sick passenger taken off Beijing-Boston flight at Logan Airport, refuses transport 
 A “sick” person coming from China into Logan International Airport on a Hainan Airlines flight today was evaluated for coronavirus but refused transport to a local hospital, officials announced.

“Massport Fire Rescue and Boston EMS responded to a report of a sick passenger at Terminal E. All safety protocols are being followed. We expect the passenger to be transported to a local hospital,” Massport said in a statement.

But a Boston EMS spokeswoman later told the Herald the passenger “refused transport” after being evaluated at Logan. The passenger did not meet the CDC criteria used to refuse transport, the EMS spokeswoman added.

According to the CDC, criteria for a coronavirus diagnosis includes symptoms of fever, cough and difficulty breathing coupled with travel to Wuhan, China, within the last 14 days, or close contact with someone who was in Wuhan or had laboratory-confirmed coronavirus.

					
				

Massport spokeswoman Bernice Freedman told the Herald the “sick” person landed “this afternoon” from Beijing after the passenger’s Hainan Airlines flight landed and the jet pulled into Terminal E.

VIDEO

She could “not confirm” if the passenger had flu-like symptoms. She repeated all “protocols are being followed.”

This comes as news reports indicate that as many as 16 airlines have stopped flying into China, including United Airlines, American Airlines, Air Canada and British Air.

Massport said it was not halting flights in and out of the country at the epicenter of a massive coronavirus outbreak. The decision to halt flights would come from the airlines or the FAA, Massport’s Jennifer Mehigan said.

					
				

“It’s flu season. State health officials are saying the flu is particularly bad this season so people should take precautions,” Mehigan said.

Coronavirus has killed at least 132 people in China. More than 6,000 cases of the virus have been confirmed in more than a dozen countries, including five cases in the United States.

“Due to a significant decline in demand for travel to China, we are suspending some flights between our hub cities and Beijing, Hong Kong and Shanghai beginning Feb. 1 through Feb. 8,” United Airlines said in a statement. “We will continue to monitor the situation as it develops and will adjust our schedule as needed.”

American Airlines said in a statement, “Given the significant decline in demand for travel to and from China, American Airlines will suspend travel between Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) and Shanghai Pudong Airport (PVG) as well as LAX and Beijing Capital International Airport (PEK) from Feb. 9 through Mar. 27, 2020… We will continue to review our flight schedules to ensure we can accommodate the needs of our customers and will make updates as needed.”

American will continue its service from Los Angeles to Hong Kong, as well as from Dallas to China.

“In response to the Coronavirus situation, we are cancelling select flights to China to better match capacity with expected demand,” Air Canada said in a statement. “Air Canada currently operates 33 flights a week to China and the resulting capacity reduction is relatively small. Those customers who are affected will be notified and provided with alternate travel options. We continue to monitor the situation closely and will adjust accordingly.”

British Airways has “temporarily suspended all flights to and from mainland China with immediate effect following advice from the Foreign Office against all but essential travel. We apologise to customers for the inconvenience, but the safety of our customers and crew is always our priority.”

Developing …