Factbox: Airlines suspend China flights over coronavirus 
 (Reuters) - Airlines have started suspending flights to China due to fears over the spread of a new coronavirus outbreak, which as of Thursday had killed 170 people and infected almost 8,000. 
Sri Lankan Airlines staff wear masks at Bandaranaike International Airport after Sri Lanka confirmed the first case of coronavirus in the country, in Katunayake, Sri Lanka January 30, 2020. REUTERS/Dinuka Liyanawatte


Airlines which have suspended flights (in alphabetical order): 
AIR CANADA 
Air Canada said on Jan. 28 it was cancelling select flights to China. 
AIR FRANCE-KLM 
Air France-KLM said on Jan. 30 it had suspended all scheduled flights to and from mainland China until Feb. 9, 2020 
AIR INDIA 
Air India said it was cancelling its Mumbai-Delhi-Shanghai flight from Jan. 31 to Feb. 14. 
AIR SEOUL 
South Korean budget carrier Air Seoul said on Jan. 28 it had suspended all flights to China. 
AIR TANZANIA 
Tanzania’s state-owned carrier said it would postpone its maiden flights to China. It had planned to begin charter flights to China in February. 
AMERICAN AIRLINES 
The largest U.S. carrier said it would suspend flights from Los Angeles to Beijing and Shanghai from Feb. 9 to March 27. 
BRITISH AIRWAYS  
BA said on Jan. 30 it had cancelled all flights to mainland China for a month. 
CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS 
Hong Kong’s Cathay Pacific said it would progressively reduce capacity to and from mainland China by 50% or more from Jan. 30 to the end of March. 
EGYPTAIR 
Egypt’s flag carrier said on Jan. 30 it would suspend all flights to and from China starting Saturday. 
EL AL ISRAEL AIRLINES 
El Al Israel Airlines said on Jan. 30 it was suspending flights to Beijing until March 25. Israel’s Health Ministry said it will not allow flights from China to land at its airports. 
FINNAIR 
Finland’s Finnair said on Jan. 28 it would suspend its flights to Nanjing and Beijing until the end of March after China suspended international group travel from the country. 
Finnair will suspend its three weekly flights between Helsinki and Beijing Daxing between Feb. 5 and March 29 and its two weekly flights between Helsinki and Nanjing between Feb. 8 and March 29. 
LION AIR 
Indonesia’s Lion Air Group said on Jan. 29 it would suspend all flights to China from February. The airline has suspended six flights from several Indonesian cities to China so far and will suspend the rest next month. 
LUFTHANSA 
Germany’s Lufthansa said on Jan. 29 it is suspending Lufthansa, Swiss and Austrian Airlines flights to and from China until Feb. 9. The airline continues to fly to Hong Kong, but it will stop taking bookings for flights to mainland China until the end of February. 
SAS 
Nordic airline SAS said on Jan. 30 it has decided to suspend all flights to and from Shanghai and Beijing from Jan. 31 until Feb. 9. 
SAS offers 12 regular weekly connections from and to Shanghai and Beijing. 
TURKISH AIRLINES 
Turkey’s flag carrier said on Jan. 30 it would decrease frequency on scheduled flights to Beijing, Guangzhou, Shanghai and Xian between Feb. 5 to Feb. 29. 
UNITED AIRLINES 
Chicago-based United said it would implement a second phase of flight cancellations between its hub cities in the United States and Beijing, Hong Kong and Shanghai, resulting in 332 additional roundtrips being called off through March 28.  
The cancellations will reduce the carrier’s daily departures for mainland China and Hong Kong to four daily departures from 12. 
United had previously suspended 24 U.S. flights to Beijing, Hong Kong and Shanghai between Feb. 1 and Feb. 8 because of a significant drop in demand.  
Reporting by Jagoda Darlak and Tommy Lund in Gdansk; editing by Elaine Hardcastle and Alexander Smith