Father 'strangled estranged pregnant wife because he did not want the child' 
 Michael Owen has been charged with murdering his estranged wife, Kelly Owen, in Long Island. (Picture: CBS/Nassau County Police Department)A father strangled his estranged wife because after learning she was pregnant with a child he ‘did not want,’ investigators said.

Michael Owen, 27, was arrested on Tuesday and charged with murdering his wife, Kelly Owen, in Long Island, New York.

Kelly Owen’s body was discovered in her bed by her parents in their family home on January 16. A medical examiner later determined she was strangled to death.

Nassau County Lieutenant Stephen Fitzpatrick said investigators now believe Micheal Owen killed his estranged wife because she was pregnant.

‘He did not want this child. He did not want to give her medical insurance. He had this new relationship he was involved in and he was in a bad position,’ Fitzpatrick said, according to NBC.

VIDEO

‘All signs and evidence pointed to Micheal,’ said Fitzpatrick, who added that the couples marriage ‘started getting rocky in regards to monetary and other matters.’

Police say Michael and Kelly Owen married in 2013 and had a daughter shortly after.

First person-to-person transmitted case of coronavirus confirmed in USThey reportedly separated in March 2018 and were involved in alleged domestic abuse incident later that year that required police intervention. Kelly Owen moved out of their home in January 2019 and started living with her parents.

However, they continued to maintain a ‘physical and intimate’ relationship, although Michael Owen started a new relationship with a woman he lived with, according to CBS.

Investigators said they now believe Michael Owen killed his wife after learning she was pregnant with their second child. There were reportedly no obvious signs of a break-in at Kelly Owen’s family home, leading officers to believe she was murdered by someone she knew, which was apparently backed up by witness statements.

Man died in Chinatown after people 'refused to give CPR over coronavirus fears'‘Everyone in that neighborhood came forward, whether they had video or they saw something. A lot of information was significant for our case,’ Fitzpatrick said.

Michael Owen pleaded not guilty to second-degree murder charges on Wednesday and was held without bail.

He is set to appear in court on Friday.