Dershowitz: I never said a president could do anything to get reelected 
 Media pundits and partisan politicians are deliberately distorting the argument I made during the Senate's impeachment trial. Taking advantage of the fact that most of their readers or viewers didn’t actually watch the Senate's question-and-answer session, they have mischaracterized my argument as if I said that a president who believes his reelection is in the national interest can do anything.

I said nothing like that, as anyone who actually heard what I said can attest. What I said was in response to the House impeachment managers' argument, which was that any action by a politician motivated in part by a desire to be reelected was, by its nature, corrupt. In my response, I listed three broad categories of relevant motive:

3) Mixed motive (help the national interest in a way that helps a reelection effort).

I said that the third motive was often the reality of politics, and that helping one's own reelection effort cannot — by itself — necessarily be deemed corrupt. I gave, as an example of mixed motive, President Lincoln’s decision to send Indiana troops home from the battlefield so they would vote for his party in a state election. He genuinely believed that his party’s victory in Indiana was essential to the war effort, but he also knew it would help him politically.

I gave another hypothetical: President Obama promised to bomb Syrian military targets if Syria's President Assad used chemical weapons. He broke his promise. What it if turns out that one reason he broke his promise was that his political advisers warned him that bombing Syria would lose him votes among the hard left? My point is that these are complex issues and the Framers did not intend impeachment for mixed-motive decisions that contain an element of personal partisan benefit.

Anyone watching my answer would know that it was in response to the House managers' claim that any electoral benefit would constitute an impeachable quid pro quo. I pointed out how open-ended that argument is, because most politicians honestly believe their reelections help the national interest. I did not say or imply that a candidate could do anything to reassure his or her reelection — only that seeking help in an election is not necessarily corrupt, citing the Lincoln and Obama examples. My critics have an obligation to respond to what I said, not to create straw men to attack.

I’m certain that the senators and those other Americans who watched the entire Q-and-A understood the point I was making: Just because a politician has mixed motives for his actions — including the desire for reelection (which he or she believes is in the national interest) — doesn’t prove that politician is corrupt. Even Congressman Adam Schiff Adam Bennett SchiffSenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session How low will the president go? Live coverage: Senators query impeachment managers, Trump defense MORE (D-Calif.) understood it and responded that there are cases in which mixed motives can be criminal if one of the motives was corrupt.

I’m sure those TV talking heads who mischaracterized my argument knew exactly what they were doing. They heard my Lincoln and Obama examples but, instead of responding to those on the merits — which they were unable to do — they decided to create an easy but false straw man which they could mock.

The straw man is that I argued that President Trump Donald John TrumpDemocrats outraged over White House lawyer's claim that some foreign involvement in elections is acceptable Senators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session White House announces task force to monitor coronavirus MORE could do anything he wanted as long as he believed his election was in the national interest. Pundits and tweeters have given preposterous examples: kidnapping an opposing candidate, bribing voters, rounding up all Democrats, tampering with ballot boxes — all of which are criminal, as were many of President Richard Nixon's impeachable offenses. My argument was that if a president does something legally within his authority — such as withholding aid, sending soldiers home, or breaking a promise to bomb Syrian military facilities if they use chemical weapons — the fact that he was motivated in part by his desire for reelection does not, in itself, constitute impeachable conduct.

Under the House managers' overbroad theory of motivation — the theory to which I was responding — Joe Biden Joe BidenSenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session Sanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial MORE, who I admire and like, would be guilty even if a small part of his motivation for having a Ukrainian prosecutor fired was to protect his son or the Ukrainian company that appointed his son as a paid board member. I believe Joe Biden is a patriot who cares deeply about the national interest, but he also cares deeply about his family. Under the House managers' dangerous theory, he would have to be psychoanalyzed to determine the role each motive may have played in an entirely lawful action. The House managers' theory takes us down a dangerous road.

Mixed motives are always matters of degree and, if they become a criteria for impeachment, they can be used selectively against certain candidates and not others. That is the danger to which I was alluding. But instead of reporting on this danger, the anti-Trump media couldn’t resist the temptation to deliberately distort and mischaracterize it. This deliberate distortion is a symptom of our times. And it explains why dialogue and debate about controversial, interesting ideas are becoming more difficult in our divisive age.

Alan Dershowitz Alan Morton DershowitzBolton, GOP senators see their close ties challenged Dershowitz: If President does something to win election, it's OK unless it's illegal Live coverage: Senators query impeachment managers, Trump defense MORE, professor emeritus at Harvard Law School, is a member of President Trump's legal team in the Senate's impeachment trial and the author of “The Case Against the Democratic House Impeaching Trump.”