India reports first positive case of coronavirus; screening tightened at airports | India News - Times of India 
 NEW DELHI: India on Thursday reported its first positive case of novel coronavirus (nCoV), increasing pressure on government to further tighten screening of passengers from abroad, particularly China, and augment health facilities to prevent any spread of the deadly virus In a high level review meeting, the Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba decided that all those who have come from China after 15th January, 2020 will be tested as there in an incubation period for the virus.A student from Kerala, who was studying in Wuhan University and travelled to India, has tested positive for the virus, the health ministry said."The patient has tested positive for novel coronavirus and is in isolation at the hospital. The patient is stable and is being closely monitored," the ministry said.The government also stressed upon the need for 14 days’ home isolation for all those who have returned from China.As per the World Health Organisation (WHO), coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that cause illnesses ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS).The 2019 nCoV outbreak that has concerned health experts worldover started in China's Wuhan city early December last year and has so far infected at least 7711 in 31 provinces of China. Of this, 1370 were serious cases and 170 people have died. Most of the deaths were reported in elderlies with co-morbid conditions.Apart from China, 15 other countries have reported a total of 68 confirmed cases so far.In India, several states including Delhi, Haryana, Punjab Rajasthan have kept some people, with travel history to China, under observation after they showed n-CoV-like symptoms.With the virus spreading wider, the WHO has also decided to reconvene its Emergency Committee meeting on the 2019-nCoV on Thursday to consider declaring a global public health emergency. The committee will advise on recommendations to manage the outbreak.The health ministry in India maintained that it is fully prepared to handle any outbreak in the country. “Thermal screening sensors are operational and few more such equipment are being procured. The immigration and other staff members at the airports have been sensitized and dedicated ambulances are placed. Deployment of medical & para-medical staff is also being done for round-the-clock service," an official statement said. “Hospitals have prepared isolation wards, preparing for any contingency. Personal protection equipments and masks are available in adequate quantity in all the States/UTs."The Cabinet secretary also instructed to augment the lab facility with six more labs starting from Thursday and another six from Friday.