What we know about the coronavirus evacuations to Christmas Island 
 Flying hundreds of people from China to Australia in the midst of the global health scare around coronavirus sounds like a logistical nightmare.

When that evacuation would lead to two weeks of quarantine at a controversial detention centre, there are even more questions to answer.

Here's what we know so far about the evacuations and the quarantine on Christmas Island.

We don't know exactly when the first evacuees will be making their way to the island, but Prime Minister Scott Morrison said the Government was "moving very, very swiftly" in a "rather limited window".

The Government has China's permission for a charter flight out of Hubei and Foreign Minister Marise Payne said Australian diplomats would meet with Chinese authorities to talk about the specifics on Thursday.

The problem (well, one of the problems) is there are more than 600 Australians registered with Smart Traveller as being in Hubei Province and the Government has warned that if it manages to get a flight out, it might not be able to offer a second one.

For those who want to catch that flight, elderly people and children, who have proven most vulnerable to the effects of the disease, will get priority. Outside of those groups the evacuations will be approved on a "last-in, first-out" basis, meaning tourists and recent arrivals will priority ahead of those who've been living in the area for longer.

New Zealanders and Pacific Islanders will also be offered seats on the flight.

Perhaps unsurprisingly, Qantas will be the official airline of this evacuation.

For what it's worth, Qantas's biggest plane is the Airbus A380, which holds a tick under 500 passengers.

Families the ABC has spoken with say they're being told the cost will be $1,000 per person to fly from China to Australia.

Of course, no-one is being forced to get on these flights.

The Government's offer is voluntary for people in Hubei province, but if people accept the evacuation then the fortnight of quarantine on Christmas Island is compulsory.

Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton said people wouldn't have to pay for the time they spend on Christmas Island.

"People have to pay for the flight from China back to Australia. That's, as I'm advised by DFAT, the normal way in which these things occur and that will be the limit of the contribution," he said.

On top of the cost of the flight, the ABC understand travellers will also have to sort out their own domestic transport within China and Australia. Speaking of which…

Outside of movies and video games, most people probably don't have much experience navigating a city dealing with mass quarantines. With the capital of Hubei province, Wuhan, in lockdown, how is the average person supposed to get from their hotel or house to the airport?

The ABC understands citizens will have to arrange their own travel before and after the Christmas Island quarantine.

Many citizens and parents of over 140 Australian children are concerned it will be "impossible" for them to have their own transportation to the airport, given the city of Wuhan banned both public and private transportation last week.

Some families in Hubei have told the ABC the transportation logistics remain unclear, and the Government said it was still finalising the details.

The Government said Christmas Island was chosen because it is best placed to accommodate hundreds of people on short notice.

The facility there is synonymous with refugees and has a controversial history to say the least, so what will the conditions be like for those who've been quarantined?

Mr Dutton said "people who have come from China … will be restricted to the isolation area" that's been declared under the Biosecurity Act.

"My clear message to people on Christmas Island is we won't be using the medical centre or the health facilities on Christmas Island," Mr Dutton said.

"We won't be utilising other areas, common areas, on Christmas Island."

The Government has said people would receive medical treatment on Christmas Island but are putting in place contingencies in case someone needs to be transferred to the mainland for treatment.

A so-called Ozmat team of specialist medical officers from the Home Affairs Department will travel to Christmas Island to help with monitoring.

It remains unclear if someone is found to be contagious if that will restart the quarantine period for all people in isolation.

A Sri Lankan family of four is on Christmas Island due to an ongoing deportation dispute.

The Biloela family has been in the detention facility since last year and will remain in a section of the facility separate to where the repatriated Australians will be in quarantine, according to the Government.