Coronavirus outbreak declared a global health emergency by WHO 
 China’s coronavirus has been declared a global health emergency, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO). 


The death toll has reached 170 in China, as the first evacuation flight from virus-hit Wuhan to the UK has been cleared for takeoff. 


The flight will leave Wuhan - the city at the centre of the outbreak - at 5am local time (9pm GMT) and is expected to arrive in the UK at around 8.45am GMT on Friday.


It is thought around 150 people will be on the flight and passengers say they have been told only to take hand luggage.





  An earlier planned flight was schelduled to leave on Thursday, but was cancelled as it was understood Chinese officials had not yet granted permission for the chartered flight to depart.


It comes as more countries have reported infections of the deadly virus.


Russia is closing its 2,600-mile border with China, joining Mongolia and North Korea in barring crossings to guard against the outbreak.


It had been de facto closed because of the Lunar New Year holiday, but Russian authorities said the closure would be extended until March 1.





  Train traffic between the countries was halted except for one train connecting Moscow and Beijing, but air traffic between the two countries continued. 


Russia has not confirmed any cases of the virus.


Meanwhile, the United States and South Korea confirmed their first cases of person-to-person spread of the virus. 


The man in the US is married to a 60-year-old Chicago woman who got sick from the virus after she returned from a trip to Wuhan, the Chinese city at the epicentre of the outbreak.





  There have been cases reported of the infectious virus spreading to others in a household or workplace in China and elsewhere. 


The case in South Korea was a 56-year-old man who had contact with a patient who was diagnosed with the new virus earlier.


Human-to-human spread of the virus outside China has also occurred in Germany, Japan, Canada and Vietnam, and was a major reason the World Health Organisation (WHO) has convened its committee of experts to declare the outbreak a global public health emergency.


The committee last week advised the UN health agency it was too early to make that pronouncement.





  The new virus has now infected more people in China than fell ill there during the 2002-2003 outbreak of SARS, a cousin of the new virus.


The latest figures for mainland China show an increase of 38 deaths and 1,737 cases for a total of 7,736 confirmed cases. 


Of the new deaths, 37 were in Hubei province, of which Wuhan is the capital, and one was in the south-western province of Sichuan. 


Outside China, there are 82 infections in 18 countries, according to WHO.