Masks flying off P.E.I. shelves, despite assurances there is low risk of coronavirus 
 Many P.E.I. pharmacies are having a hard time keeping face masks in stock, despite assurances from P.E.I.'s chief public health officer that there's very little risk of contracting coronavirus on P.E.I.

The new coronavirus has killed 170 people and spread from China to at least 17 other countries including Canada, where there are two cases in Ontario and one in British Columbia — all linked to recent travel in China. To date, about 99 per cent of the almost 8,000 confirmed cases of the virus are in China.

CBC News contacted several pharmacies in Stratford, Charlottetown and Cornwall and all say the masks are flying off the shelves.

"The other day I had one woman came in, and we had a dozen on the shelf, and she bought all 12," said Wally Kowalchuk, the owner of Wally's Pharmasave in Cornwall. He said he's been getting about six phone calls a day from people looking for masks.

"I know that person that came in said they were sending them home to family," Kowalchuk said.

Kowalchuck said he is now trying to buy more face masks, but said the wholesaler he usually uses is also sold out.

"We had like over 100 units came in the other day and they were all sold out," said Jasjit Singh, a supervisor at Shoppers Drug Mart at University and Allen streets in Charlottetown.

Singh said he has ordered 500-600 more masks, and hopes to receive them soon.

"We have never sold [this] many, the way we're selling right now," he said.

Toronto General Hospital Research Institute infectious disease specialist Dr. Susy Hota answered questions about the virus Sunday on CBC's Cross Country Checkup. She said masks can be helpful — but only in certain scenarios, and the average Canadian should not yet worry about using a mask.

"Right now, there is really not a role for everyone putting on a mask to protect themselves," she said.

Those working in hospitals — or visiting an affected patient — do require personal protective equipment, including masks. Viruses like the new coronavirus require close and "sustained" contact for transmission, Hota said.

"It's usually larger, respiratory droplets that are generated from when you cough or sneeze … that, actually, can only travel for about two metres or so," she said.

Danuta Skowronski with the B.C. Centre for Disease Control, said the agency is not recommending that people use the masks to protect themselves — and would be unlikely to ever issue such a directive.

"That is a huge cost with no proven benefit," she said. Skowronski said the one time she would advise the use of a face mask would be for someone who has symptoms and who is entering a health-care facility for treatment.