NSW Now: 'Severe' and 'extreme' heatwave on the way for NSW 
 Here's what you need to know this morning.

The Bureau of Meteorology says most of the state will experience 'severe' and 'extreme' heat over the next three days, before a cool change late on Sunday.

Heatwave conditions will close 15 schools and two TAFE campuses near bushfire-affected areas of the South Coast today.

Penrith and Richmond are expected to hit 39 degrees Celsius, while the forecast for Campbelltown and Liverpool is 37 degrees.

Fire danger is high in the Greater Sydney Region, with expected temperatures in the high 20s and low 30s towards the coast.

Doctors at Sydney's Westmead Hospital are working around the clock testing samples to diagnose possible local coronavirus patients.

Medical virologist Jen Kok said he was getting less than four hours' sleep a night while working to diagnose patients.

"I think there's still a lot to be learned from this virus and we're getting more information coming every day," Dr Kok said.

"I think we will [see severe cases in Australia] but whether they go on to pass away or not, I can't comment on that."

The independent inquiry into the state's bushfire crisis is not needed and will be yet another a costly exercise, the firefighters' union says.

The State Government yesterday announced a six month inquiry to examine how the state prepared and responded to the bushfires.

But there have been multiple bushfire inquiries with subsequent recommendations that had not been rolled out yet, said NSW RFS Association president Brian McDonough.

"The problem is that there's been a lot of recommendations made and accepted but the implementation has just taken so long that it's starting to get a bit tedious," he said.

Two people have been charged under new laws targeting illegal farm invaders in NSW.

The State Government introduced tougher penalties for illegal farm trespassing last year.

The two people were arrested at a chicken farm in Sydney's outskirts after the farmer hired security guards.

The state's Minister for Agriculture Adam Marshall said both could face up to a year in jail. 



The bushfire crisis, drought and weak household demand is hurting businesses across NSW, a new survey has found.

The NSW Business Chamber said the survey showed businesses were worried about the impact the disasters will have on their livelihoods.

Damian Kelly from the Chamber said the results were disappointing because the latter part of the year normally provided a boost in trade.

"What we need to do is to get behind our local businesses, particularly those impacted by drought and bush fires … [and] spend money in those towns," he said.