U.S. GDP Growth, Amazon Earnings Preview & Buy Delta Stock - Free Lunch 
 On today’s episode of Free Lunch here at Zacks, Associate Stock Strategist Ben Rains discusses the recently released U.S. GDP data, as well as some coronavirus updates.

We then dive into earnings results from the likes of Tesla TSLA, before we preview what to expect from Amazon AMZN after the closing bell Thursday. The episode then closes with a look at why Delta Air Lines, Inc. DAL is a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy) stock at the moment.

All three major U.S. indexes fell once again Thursday on coronavirus fears, as Wall Street tries to understand the possible impact on global economic growth in 2020. The virus has now infected more people than SARS did roughly 20 years ago.

Meanwhile, the U.S. Federal Reserve decided to leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged on Wednesday, as Fed officials remain on the lookout for how the global economy might impact the U.S. One day after the Fed’s announcement, the Commerce Department said Thursday that U.S. GDP climbed 2.3% in 2019.

Along with the more macroeconomic news, fourth quarter earnings season has kicked into high gear. Microsoft MSFT and Tesla TSLA both crushed Wall Street estimates. Meanwhile, Coca-Cola KO shares popped and Facebook FB fell.

Looking ahead, Visa V and other giants are set to report after the closing bell Thursday, with Caterpillar CAT, Exxon Mobil, and Chevron scheduled for Friday morning. Despite all the big names, many eyes on Wall Street will be watching Amazon closely after the bell Thursday.

Amazon stock has unperformed the market as it spends to roll out one-day Prime shipping to help fight back against the likes of Walmart WMT and Target TGT.

The episode then ends with why Delta is a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy) stock at the moment, within a strong industry.

Today's Best Stocks from Zacks



Would you like to see the updated picks from our best market-beating strategies? From 2017 through Q3 2019, while the S&P 500 gained +39.6%, five of our strategies returned +51.8%, +57.5%, +96.9%, +119.0%, and even +158.9%.



This outperformance has not just been a recent phenomenon. From 2000 – Q3 2019, while the S&P averaged +5.6% per year, our top strategies averaged up to +54.1% per year.



See their latest picks free >>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report

 

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Facebook, Inc. (FB) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Tesla, Inc. (TSLA) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Coca-Cola Company (The) (KO) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Microsoft Corporation (MSFT) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Target Corporation (TGT) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Walmart Inc. (WMT) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

Visa Inc. (V) : Free Stock Analysis Report

 

To read this article on Zacks.com click here.

 

Zacks Investment Research