Apple Exceeds Q1 2020 Revenue Expectations By Several Billion, Citing Increased Demand For iPhone 11 
 Photo: Miguel Medina 
AFP via Getty ImagesDuring Apple’s first earnings call of 2020, an enthusiastic Tim Cook shared the tech giant’s progress as it exceeded projections, “we generated revenue of $91.8 billion, which is above the high end of our guidance range, with revenue growth accelerating for the third consecutive quarter.” 
With expectations at $88.5 billion, growing revenues are attributed to the success of the iPhone 11, “these new models by far the best iPhone's we've ever shipped,” says Apple CEO Cook, “with advanced technologies and unprecedented leap in battery life to easily get through the day, and our best-in-class camera experience.”
Apple fans are die-hard and it shows. With an active installed base surpassing 1.5 billion which grew over by 100 million within the last year, customer loyalty not only bolsters the efficacy of Apple products, but also spurs growth in the services portion of the business. 
In an effort to depend less on the iPhone for revenues, leaning into services is paying off. Shooting up 17% from last year, services (iCloud, Apple Music, payment services, and the App Store) reached $12.7 billion. New year’s Day saw $386 million alone in the App Store.
January 1, 2020, iPhone 11Pro ad in Hong Kong. Photo: Budrul Chukrut
SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty ImagesApple products played into the revenue increases with iPhone at $56 billion, Wearables, Home and Accessories at $10 billion, Mac at $7.2 billion, and iPad at $6 billion. 
There is a bit of uncertainty around the recent outbreak of coronavirus in China, Apple and many other companies are proceeding with caution. "We're still gathering lots of data points and monitoring it very closely,” said Cook on the call with analysts. Some issues regarding supply chain may crop up as the company does have some “alternate” suppliers in the Wuhan area of China, which is the region most affected by the health scare.
Analysts from top firms brought up a bevy of questions on this first earnings call – several around future products and features specifically 5G, which Cook declined to comment directly on but did seem hopeful, “with respect to 5G, I think it's — we're in the early innings of its deployment on a global basis.”