Bloomberg says he won't change donor policy to make debate stage 
 Democratic presidential candidate Michael Bloomberg Michael Rubens BloombergWarren gets endorsements from 45 Michigan officeholders, activists Poll: Most Democratic voters say billionaires are out of touch with average American The Hill's 12:30 Report: Impeachment trial moves to senators' questions MORE said he is willing to participate in the Democratic presidential debates, but he added that he will not change his policy on self-funding his campaign in order to meet the party's requirements.

“I want to participate in the debates, I always said I'd like to participate in the debates. But the rules are the rules and it's up to the Democratic party to set those rules,” Bloomberg told reporters after a speech in D.C.

“And if they change them so I could get into the debates I’d be happy,” he added.

The billionaire and former New York City mayor entered the race after the majority of his opponents had already faced off in several debates. He likely will appear in no debates ahead of the Super Tuesday states, the first nominating contests Bloomberg is participating in.

The Democratic National Convention has set a series of requirements that increase with difficulty for candidates to reach in order to make the stage. The next debate will be held on Feb. 7 in New Hampshire, shortly before the state’s first-in-the-nation primary and after the Iowa caucuses.

As Bloomberg rises in the polls, some progressive critics have expressed that the candidate is not facing the same level of scrutiny as his opponents by avoiding the debate stage. Even if Bloomberg reaches the necessary polling requirements, he will likely not make the stage due to the donor threshold.

The candidates must garner donations from 225,000 individual donors.

However, Bloomberg said he will not budge on his decision not to accept a dime from supporters.

“With my wealth it’s obscene to ask somebody else to support my campaign,” Bloomberg said.

“But more importantly I want to make sure everybody understands that a Bloomberg administration is the model of integrity,” he added. “It was for 12 years when I was the mayor, I didn’t take any money...from anybody, not even a dollar, and I’m not going to do it this time, not even a dollar.”

Bloomberg could make the New Hampshire debate stage if he wins at least one delegate in Iowa, but it isn’t likely. The former mayor decided to skip campaigning in the first four states, Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada, instead focusing his efforts on the Super Tuesday states voting on March 3.

The DNC has continued to defend its debate requirements despite requests from several candidates and former candidates that have argued against the party’s decisions.

A spokesperson for the DNC was not immediately available for comment.

Seven candidates have qualified for the February debate: Andrew Yang Andrew YangComedian Dave Chappelle will campaign with Yang in South Carolina Yang says it 'wouldn't be surprising' if many of his supporters back Sanders in Iowa Gabbard says she's received no reason from CNN for lack of invitation to town halls MORE, former Vice President Joe Biden Joe BidenSenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session Sanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial MORE, Sen. Bernie Sanders Bernie SandersSanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Weld bets on New Hampshire to fuel long shot bid against Trump MORE (I-Vt.), Sen. Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth Ann WarrenSanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Weld bets on New Hampshire to fuel long shot bid against Trump MORE (D-Mass.), former South Bend, Ind, Mayor Pete Buttigieg Peter (Pete) Paul ButtigiegSanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Overnight Health Care — Presented by Philip Morris International — Dems warn Trump against Medicaid block grants | Sanders under pressure on how to pay for 'Medicare for All' | China to allow in US health officials to study coronavirus MORE, Sen. Amy Klobuchar Amy Jean KlobucharWarren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Minneapolis NAACP, Black Lives Matter call on Klobuchar to suspend campaign Live coverage: Senators query impeachment managers, Trump defense MORE (D-Minn.) and billionaire and philanthropist Tom Steyer Tom Fahr SteyerPoll: Most Democratic voters say billionaires are out of touch with average American Hill.TV's Saagar Enjeti rips Biden over tense exchange with Steyer supporter Gabbard says she's received no reason from CNN for lack of invitation to town halls MORE.