Coronavirus explained: What is a global public health emergency? What happens now? 
 The World Health Organisation (WHO) has on Thursday night declared an international public health emergency over the coronavirus outbreak. Health experts made the announcement on Thursday evening following a meeting of the WHO emergency committee in Geneva.

Speaking to reporters, WHO Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said: "The main reason for this declaration is not because of what is happening in China, but because of what is happening in other countries.
"Our greatest concern is the potential for the virus to spread to countries with weaker health systems, and which are ill-prepared to deal with it."
Last week, WHO said it was "too early" to declare an international public health emergency but on Thursday said action was needed to help countries to prepare for the possibility of it spreading further.
The new virus has now infected more people in China than fell ill during the 2002-2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars) outbreak. The number of cases has jumped to 7,711, surpassing the 5,327 people diagnosed with Sars.
Read More: Coronavirus cure: Scientists breakdown genetic code of the China virus

What is a global public health emergency?
A Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC) is a formal declaration by the World Health Organization (WHO) of "an extraordinary event which is determined to constitute a public health risk to other States through the international spread of disease and to potentially require a coordinated international response".
A PHEIC is declared when a situation arises which is "serious, sudden, unusual or unexpected", which also "carries implications for public health beyond the affected State's national border" and "may require immediate international action".
The death toll for coronavirus rose to 170 on Thursday morning, which is lower than the 348 people who died in China from Sars.
In the UK, 161 people have tested negative for the virus as of Thursday.


The announcement came just hours before an evacuation flight to bring British nationals back to the UK is due to leave the Chinese city of Wuhan.
Around 150 UK citizens are due to be brought back from China on a flight leaving Wuhan city at 7am local time on Friday - 11pm Thursday UK time.
Passengers on the evacuation flight, which will have military medics on board, will land at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire on Friday morning.
They will then be taken to an NHS facility on the Wirral for a quarantine period of 14 days.