Coronavirus declared a global emergency 
 The World Health Organisation has declared that the coronavirus epidemic in China now constitutes a public health emergency of international concern.

WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus announced the decision after a meeting of its emergency committee, an independent panel of experts, amid mounting evidence of the virus' spread to some 18 countries.

Infections from the coronavirus have spread to more than 8100 people globally, surpassing the SARS epidemic's total.

The WHO's definition of a a public health emergency is, "An extraordinary event which constitutes a public health risk to other States through the international spread of disease, and potentially requires a coordinated international response."

READ MORE:

 * Wuhan evacuation plans 'almost wheels up', says Winston Peters

 * 'We could be seeing the peak': experts divided as spread of coronavirus slows

 * Hong Kong cuts rail links to China to curb coronavirus

 * Coronavirus outbreak could shake a vulnerable global economy

The vast majority of patients are in China where the virus originated in an illegal wildlife market in Wuhan and has gone on to claim 170 lives, latest official data showed.

But more than 100 cases have emerged in other countries, from Japan to the US, spurring anti-China sentiment and a wave of mask-buying.

South Korean firm Kukje Pharma is considering doubling or tripling shifts to cope with a rush of orders for "tens of millions" of masks.

"There's only so much we can do," an official at the firm said on Thursday (Friday New Zealand time).

The New Zealand government is in the process of bringing home its 163 citizens registered in Wuhan.

Foreign Minister Winston Peters has said a chartered plane, with capacity for 300 passengers, will be used to fly passport holders out. Australia will also be evacuating citizens and may work in tandem with New Zealand.

For the first time in the US, the coronavirus has spread from one person to another, health officials said Friday (New Zealand time).

The latest case, the sixth in that country, is the husband of a Chicago woman who got sick from the virus after she returned from Wuhan. There have been previous cases in China and elsewhere of the virus spreading between people in a household or workplace.

The Chicago woman came back from the central China city of Wuhan on January 13, then last week went to a hospital with symptoms and was diagnosed with the viral illness. She and her husband, both in their 60s, are hospitalised. Neither have been identified.

"The risk to the general public remains low. This person-to-person spread was between two very close contacts, a husband and wife," said Dr. Ngozi Ezike, director of the Illinois Department of Public Health.

The man doesn't use public transportation and he had not attended any large gatherings, officials said.

Older people, and those with other health conditions, are believed to be at greater risk for severe illness from the virus.