Investor Sentiment: Pessimism Jumps As Optimism Plunges 
 Getty
Pessimism among individual investors about the short-term direction of the stock market surged to its highest level in more than three months. At the same time, optimism in the latest AAII Sentiment Survey plunged.
Bullish sentiment, expectations that stock prices will rise over the next six months, fell 13.6 percentage points to 32.0%. Optimism was last lower on December 4, 2019 (31.7%). The historical average is 38.0%.
Neutral sentiment, expectations that stock prices will stay essentially unchanged over the next six months, rebounded by 1.5 percentage points to 31.2%. The historical average is 31.5%.
Bearish sentiment, expectations that stock prices will fall over the next six months, jumped 12.1 percentage points to 36.9%. Pessimism was last higher on October 9, 2019 (44.0%). This the first time bearish sentiment is above its historical average of 30.5% in 15 weeks.
All three indicators are currently within their typical historical ranges.
Our survey period runs from Thursday through Wednesday, with reminders to take the survey sent to a rotating group of AAII members every Monday. The timing of the reminders may have played a role in this week’s results as the global stock markets fell on Monday over fears about the new coronavirus. It’s also worth noting that optimism had reached a 15-month high last week.
Also affecting individual investor sentiment is the market’s upward trend, the phase-one trade deal between the U.S. and China, the November elections, Washington politics, earnings growth, monetary policy, the economy and valuations.
This week’s special question asked AAII members to share their thoughts about the SP 500 index’s low volatility. (The index had gone 71 days without experiencing a daily move of greater than 1% prior to Monday’s 1.6% drop.) Nearly 54% of respondents state that the low volatility is both unusual and unsustainable. Many within this group expect a correction in the near future. Conversely, 30% of all respondents think that the low volatility reflects low interest rates and a strong market. Many of these respondents believe that while there may be upticks following global news, the overall volatility levels will remain fairly low. Approximately 16% of respondents state that the low volatility trend has benefited their holdings but are unsure of how it will change in the future.
Here is a sampling of the responses: 
“Likely to end within the next year. Might increase significantly in the short-term due to the coronavirus spreading rapidly.”
“It’s a good thing and indicates that institutional and private investors alike are showing restraint to the media frenzy.”
“I think volatility is about to increase, and there may be temporary corrections. The economy is still strong overall, although corporate earnings will likely be lower than in 2019.”
“It’s curious but not meaningful. Investors wish for cause  effect, but often strange things just happen.”

As of January 30, 2020.
American Association of Individual InvestorsThis week’s AAII Sentiment Survey results:
Bullish: 32.0%, down 13.6 percentage points
Neutral: 31.2%, up 1.5 percentage points
Bearish: 36.9%, up 12.1 percentage points

Historical averages:
Bullish: 38.0%
Neutral: 31.5%
Bearish: 30.5%

——
The AAII Sentiment Survey has been conducted weekly since July 1987. The survey and its results are available online.
If you want to become an effective manager of your own assets and achieve your financial goals, consider a risk-free 30-day Trial AAII Membership.