Wilbur Ross thinks coronavirus will bring jobs back to US 
 Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross couldn’t help but see the silver lining of the coronavirus that has killed at least 171 in China and infected more than 8,100 people.

Ross said during a Fox Business interview Thursday that while America offered its sympathies to the victims and he didn’t “want to talk about a victory lap over a very unfortunate, very malignant disease … the fact is, it does give businesses yet another thing to consider when they go through their review of their supply chain.”

The Trump cabinet member added, “It’s another risk factor that people need to take into account. So, I think it will help to accelerate the return of jobs to North America. Some to US, probably some to Mexico, as well.”

The virus has spread to more than a dozen countries after originating in the Chinese city of Wuhan.

Wuhan, which has a population of about 11 million, saw nearly half its population evacuate before the entire city was placed on lockdown.

Around the time of Ross’ remarks Thursday, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced that the first known coronavirus case in the US involving someone who had not traveled to China had surfaced in Illinois.

The patient, who was not identified, is the husband of a Chicago woman who became infected after making a trip to Wuhan.



	




	
	
										
			
				
				
					
				
													
						
							Wilbur Ross															
EPA

													

					

							

											
			
				
				
					
				
													
						
							Passengers wear masks at an airport in China.															
Getty Images

													

					

							

											
			
				
				
					
				
													
						
							People ride bikes in China while wearing masks.															
Artyom Ivanov/TASS

													

					

							

											
			
				
				
					
				
													
						
							Beijing Subway Security Service members wear protective masks.															
Artyom Ivanov/TASS

													

					

							

					
		
		
		

		

		

		
		
		

	

	

	
	
	





	


This isn’t the first time Ross has made a foot-in-mouth comment on live television.

Last January, Ross expressed confusion as to why federal workers were turning to food banks during the government shutdown when they could take out loans.

“Well I know they are and I don’t really quite understand why,” Ross said on CNBC’s “Squawk Box” when asked about the employees going to homeless shelters and food banks for meals.

Instead, Ross, who’s worth about $700 million, suggested they borrow against the bill that had been recently signed by President Trump which guaranteed the workers would receive back pay once the shutdown ended.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi blasted Ross for dismissing the plight of thousands of employees either working without pay or on furlough as they tried to pay their bills.

“Is this a ‘Let them eat cake’ kind of attitude, or ‘Call your father for money,’ or ‘This is character-building for you,’” she said at her weekly news conference after the comments.