A 'comeback story for the ages': Here's what 4 analysts are saying about Tesla's 4th-quarter earnings win | Markets Insider 
 Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesTesla    beat analyst estimates for fourth-quarter profit and revenue    Wednesday afternoon, and the subsequent stock spike prolonged    the automaker's strong rally in 2020.
The company announced its Model Y CUV would reach    delivery sooner than expected, and projected it would    "comfortably exceed" 500,000 total deliveries in 2020, a 36%    gain from last year's figure.
The earnings win saw Tesla shares jump as much as 12%    to hit a record-high price of $650.88 per share.
Here's what four analysts said about the soaring stock    price and fourth-quarter earnings win.
Watch    Tesla trade live here.

Tesla  bested analyst estimates with its fourth-quarter report on  Wednesday afternoon, prolonging its stock surge through 2020 and  easing fears of a continued supply struggle.
  The automaker's stock soared   as much as 12% Thursday following the blockbuster report.  Tesla beat expectations for both quarterly profit and revenue,  and noted its 2020 deliveries would "comfortably exceed" 500,000  vehicles compared to 2019's 367,500.
  The company also accelerated the rollout of its Model Y CUV,  saying a "production ramp" started in January and deliveries  would begin by the end of March.
  The earnings win drove Tesla shares to an all-time high of  $650.88 per share. The stock has already notched several record  highs through the new year, granting a hefty compensation package  for CEO Elon Musk and establishing the firm as the highest-valued  automaker in the US.
  Tesla traded at $640.50 per share as of 3:10 p.m. ET Thursday, up  about 55% year-to-date.
  Here's what four analysts have to say about Tesla after its  positive fourth-quarter figures and surging stock price.





Piper Sandler: "Tesla's thriftiness continues to impress"
TeslaPrice target: $729
Rating: Overweight
  Tesla's frugality helped the automaker end the quarter with 6.3  billion in free cash, and its success in strategically deploying  capital to boost vehicle deliveries prompted a price target  upgrade from Piper Sandler's analysts.
  "Predicting capex is a challenge, but Tesla keeps under-spending  our estimates, so we're cutting our forecast to more closely  reflect the company's actual performance," the team wrote.  "Tesla's thriftiness continues to impress."
  The company's strategic investments are set to push deliveries to  a lofty record in 2020, and "demand remains a non-issue" with  several new models set to hit markets in the coming years, the  analysts wrote.
  Despite exciting launches for the Model Y, Semi, and self-driving  software on the horizon, the next event to watch is Tesla's  "battery day," they added. Power cells are shaping up to be a  limiting factor in the company's production ramp-up, and any  positive updates to battery technology or new suppliers could  lift a downward pressure for the automaker.





Wedbush: "The bull party will continue"
AP Photo/Ringo H.W. Chiu, FilePrice target: $710
Rating: Neutral
  Noted Tesla bull Dan Ives viewed the company's latest report as  "potentially game-changing," as stable profitability and healthy  cash flow secured Tesla's spot as a lasting player in the EV  space. The 500,000-deliveries estimate is "conservatively  positive," Ives said, and the company could deliver as many as  550,000 vehicles in 2020 and support a continued rally for the  soaring stock.
  "The bull party will continue as the aggressive trajectory of  Giga 3 production and demand out of Shanghai look very strong out  of the gate," the analyst wrote.
  Wedbush also updated its long-term bull case for the automaker,  noting that Tesla shares could reach $1,000 if it can ramp up  production in Shanghai and drive demand in China in the years to  come. The firm's new Tesla price target reflects heightened  demand for EVs, and past fears around improving production rates  are quickly fading, the note said.
  "For Musk, despite all the noise over the last year and balancing  a myriad of projects at Tesla (while running SpaceX and launch  targets) last night completes a "comeback story for the ages"  from the dark days seen last April," the team wrote.





Canaccord Genuity: "The leader of the EV revolution"
TeslaPrice target: $750
Rating:
  Canaccord Genuity now stands as Wall Street's biggest Tesla bull,  with their latest price target implying a 16% upside from  Thursday's opening price. Though the new target is based on a  lofty 2021 EPS projection of $25.03, the firm believes Tesla's  opportunity in "disrupting the legacy transportation industry"  warrants such rapid profit growth.
  The analysts also praised Tesla's advantage in the battery,  echoing other firms in emphasizing the importance of its upcoming  battery tech event. The automaker's "greatest near-term risk" is  its Shanghai factory's exposure to the coronavirus, the analysts  noted. If the outbreak is efficiently contained in the coming  weeks, Tesla is on pace to reach numerous records in the new  year, Canaccord Genuity added.
  "Given the numerous positive data points that were discussed and  the cornerstone of of continued profitability and free cash flow  generation, we view the company as solidly positioned as the  leader of the EV revolution," the analysts wrote.