Scottish coronavirus case 'highly likely' after dozens of suspected cases 
 It is ‘highly likely’ a positive case of coronavirus could be confirmed in Scotland within the next week, the Scottish health chief has warned.

Health officials said 16 people north of the border, who were suspected of carrying the killer virus, have all received negative tests.

Most were well enough to self-quarantine at home but some had to be taken to hospital for treatment while awaiting results.

Dr Catherine Calderwood said an ‘emergency resilience operation’ has been launched following a meeting with First Minister Nicola Sturgeon.

She said: ‘It is highly likely we’ll have a positive case of coronavirus in Scotland in the coming days.

‘The public can be assured that Scotland has well-established plans and is well prepared for these types of outbreak.

‘We have a proven track record of dealing with challenging health issues and have established public health and infectious disease experts working round the clock.’

Almost 8,000 cases of the virus have been confirmed in China, with the death toll currently standing at 170.

Public Health England (PHE) said the first case of the virus in the UK will likely be someone already in the country.

However, the government said the risk to the population remains low, after more than 160 tests carried out across the UK came back negative.

Scotland said there are measures in place to deal with confirmed cases, including imposing legal restrictions on patients’ movements if necessary.

Anyone who thinks they have symptoms of coronavirus is urged to contact NHS 24. The waiting time for test results is currently 24 to 48 hours.

The UK government is currently negotiating with China to fly out some 200 British citizens who have been stuck in Wuhan – the epicentre of the outbreak – and the surrounding area.

Many have had to be separated from loved ones with Chinese passports as authorities there are not willing to grant exemptions on the travel bans affecting all citizens.

There are no direct flights from China to Scotland.