Aussie dollar sinks to four-month low as volatile Wall Street slips amid coronavirus fears 
 Australian shares are expected to open higher, shrugging off the economic impact of the coronavirus — despite the World Health Organisation declaring the outbreak a global health emergency.

By 7:05am (AEDT), ASX futures were up 15 points or 0.2 per cent.

The Australian dollar, meanwhile, sank to a four-month low of 67.1 US cents.

It also dropped sharply against the British pound (-1.1pc), euro (-0.8pc) and Japanese yen (-0.9pc).

The local market is also ignoring a lacklustre lead from Wall Street which, in addition to virus outbreak fears, was weighed down by a fall in Facebook's share price, tumbling oil prices and weak economic data.

The industrial-skewed Dow Jones index slipped by 43 points, or 0.2 per cent, by 3:20pm (local time). At its lowest point, the Dow had dropped by as much as 244 points.

The benchmark S&P 500 and Nasdaq were flat, after managing to erase most of their day's losses.

The US economy missed the Trump administration's 3 per cent growth target for the second year in a row, and posting its slowest annual growth in three years (in 2019) as the slump in business investment deepened amid its damaging trade wars — particularly with China.

Gross domestic product (GDP) grew by 2.3 per cent last year, according to the US Commerce Department.

It suggests the White House and Republicans' massive $US1.5 trillion corporate tax cuts only provided the US economy with a temporary boost.

Brent crude dropped 1.7 per cent to $US58.78 per barrel on concerns that the coronavirus will lead to slower demand for oil from China.

Facebook plummeted by 6 per cent to $US209.87 per share after the social media company warned of slowing growth as its business matured, in addition to reporting a surge in quarterly expenses.

Meanwhile, spot gold lifted by 0.1 per cent to $US1,578 an ounce as virus fears lingered on the minds of investors seeking safe haven assets.

More to come.