U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross Trumpets Jobs Returning Back To The U.S. As A Result Of China’s Coronavirus 
 (Photo by Steven Ferdman/Getty Images)
Getty ImagesAs the coronavirus rages on in China and other countries with growing confirmed cases and a rising death toll, United States Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross announced that this virus outbreak will "accelerate" the return of jobs to the U.S. 
In an interview with Fox Business, Ross, who is estimated by Forbes to have a net worth of $2.5 billion said, "Well, first of all, every American's heart has to go out to the victims of the coronavirus. So, I don't want to talk about a victory lap over a very unfortunate, very malignant disease. But the fact is, it does give businesses yet another thing to consider when they go through their review of their supply chain."
Ross continued his pitch, "On top of all the other things, you had SARS, you had the African swine virus there, now you have this." He added, "It's another risk factor that people need to take into account. So, I think it will help to accelerate the return of jobs to North America. Some to U.S., probably some to Mexico, as well."
In light of the pervasive and escalating fear over the virus and lack of any known antidote, Ross’ comments come off as tone-deaf, inappropriate and insensitive. The commerce secretary’s assertions are frustrating since the answer is not so simple. 
Major U.S. corporations that have substantial operations in China can’t just pack up their boxes and leave. They have factories, offices, vendors, suppliers and employees to consider. It almost seems disingenuous to state in a cavalier manner that because of this outbreak, companies will uproot their businesses and promptly return back to the U.S. 
With respect to manufacturing, due to the rapid growth of technology and robotics, it doesn’t seem very likely that, if operations are shifted back to the U.S., they will then employ large numbers of factory workers—as if it's the 1950s. If you look at any modern factory, they deploy robotics and there are fewer needs for workers on assembly lines. 
The reality is that Ross is the secretary of commerce and it's his job to tout jobs for Americans. He holds an important executive-level role in President Donald Trump’s cabinet. The job requires Ross, as the head of the agency, to cultivate economic opportunities and jobs for U.S. citizens and support the country’s business interests.  
As anyone who has followed the movements of people in the White House, it's clear that if staff—at all levels—don’t adhere to Trump doctrines, they are summarily dispatched. Ross’ job is to vigorously champion creating jobs for Americans, including bringing back manufacturing to the U.S, which was once the underlying foundation of the American economy and a substantial source of employment and gateway to the middle class. 
Ross has a history of making controversial and questionable comments. In a Marie-Antoinette moment in the midst of a partial government shutdown last year, he victim-blamed government workers by saying he doesn't "really quite understand why" furloughed federal workers don't just take out loans to cover missed paychecks.
Though Ross might be perceived as crass, his statements on Thursday do raise some pertinent questions. Should executives at U.S.-based companies with offices in China consider the prudence of maintaining significant business interests there? Every few years, the Asian country is adversely affected by strong virus strains. Executives must consider the health risks of their employees. If they feel that they won't be safe, it might be shrewd to select other countries to relocate their operations, including bringing back jobs to the U.S.
It could prove to be a worthy endeavor for corporate executives to diversify their global operations and not become too dependent upon China. A decoupling, which could include returning some businesses to the U.S. and moving them to other countries, seems like a rational measure, especially when there are concerns of intellectual property theft, privacy invasions and forced partnerships hoisted upon companies that want to conduct business in China.
The World Health Organization has declared the coronavirus a global health emergency. The U.S. confirmed its first human-to-human transmission of the virus, which has killed at least 171 people in China. There are more than 8, 200 confirmed cases in over 18 countries.
Although things look bleak, some on Wall Street have hope. The stock market did not crater on the news of the outbreak, which is indicative that smart investors believe circumstances will improve. “There should be some adverse impact to 1Q20 global growth,” Morgan Stanley said, referring to the first quarter of 2020. “But as the underlying drivers of the global recovery remain intact, growth should get back onto the recovery path once the effects of disruption fade.”
Calls put in to the U.S. Department of Commerce for comment were not returned.