Bloomberg surges past Warren into third place in new national poll 
 Former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg Michael Rubens BloombergWarren gets endorsements from 45 Michigan officeholders, activists Poll: Most Democratic voters say billionaires are out of touch with average American The Hill's 12:30 Report: Impeachment trial moves to senators' questions MORE surged past Sen. Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth Ann WarrenSanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Weld bets on New Hampshire to fuel long shot bid against Trump MORE (D-Mass.) in the latest nationwide Hill-HarrisX poll, putting him in third place in the field of Democratic presidential candidates.

The survey, released Thursday, showed Bloomberg’s support ticking up 4 percentage points to 11 percent from from a Jan. 13-14 poll. Warren dropped 2 points, to 9 percent.

Other candidates registering in the single digits included former South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg Peter (Pete) Paul ButtigiegSanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Overnight Health Care — Presented by Philip Morris International — Dems warn Trump against Medicaid block grants | Sanders under pressure on how to pay for 'Medicare for All' | China to allow in US health officials to study coronavirus MORE, at 5 percent, and businessman Andrew Yang Andrew YangComedian Dave Chappelle will campaign with Yang in South Carolina Yang says it 'wouldn't be surprising' if many of his supporters back Sanders in Iowa Gabbard says she's received no reason from CNN for lack of invitation to town halls MORE and billionaire Tom Steyer Tom Fahr SteyerPoll: Most Democratic voters say billionaires are out of touch with average American Hill.TV's Saagar Enjeti rips Biden over tense exchange with Steyer supporter Gabbard says she's received no reason from CNN for lack of invitation to town halls MORE, who each received 4 percent. The rest of the White House hopefuls polled at 2 percent or less.

Warren has struggled to rebound nationally after peaking at 19 percent support in October.

But Warren isn’t the only top-tier candidate to slide in the polls ahead of Monday's Iowa caucuses. Progressive rival Sen. Bernie Sanders Bernie SandersSanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial Weld bets on New Hampshire to fuel long shot bid against Trump MORE (I-Vt.) dropped 2 points, to 17 percent.

Former Vice President Joe Biden Joe BidenSenators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session Sanders campaign says it raised more than .3 million in one day after negative ad Warren's dog campaigns in Iowa while senator sits in impeachment trial MORE, meanwhile, maintained a double-digit lead over the field, with 29 percent support.

Both Biden and Sanders are locked in a tight race in Iowa. An Emerson poll released Sunday found the Vermont senator in the top spot in the Hawkeye State with 30 percent support, followed by Biden's 21 percent. A New York Times/Siena College poll released the day before also showed Sanders in the lead with 25 percent support to Biden’s 17 percent.

The Hill-HarrisX survey was conducted among 878 respondents from Jan. 20-22. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.3 percentage points.