Coronavirus tests on 2 people in NH come back negative; patients fully recovered 
 MIKE: THANK YOU FOR THAT REPORT CORONAVIRUS TESTS FOR TWO PATIEN IN NEW HAMPSHIRE HAVE COME BACK NEGATIVE. BOTH PATIENT HAVE RECOVERED. THEY WERE HELD IN ISOLATION WHILE WAITING FOR RESULTS. WE WILL TAKE A LOOK AT HOW THE

Test results for two people in New Hampshire have come back negative for coronavirus, New Hampshire health officials said Thursday. >> Download the FREE WMUR appThe two patients have fully recovered, officials said. Officials said the two recently traveled to Wuhan, China, the epicenter of the novel coronavirus outbreak. They reported mild symptoms that could have been caused by the virus and were placed in isolation while tests were done.>> NH first responders say they're ready to deal with coronavirus if neededHealth officials said there have been more than 7,800 confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus worldwide, surpassing the SARS outbreak in 2002 and 2003. But officials said the death rate appears to be about 2%, significantly lower than that of SARS.In New Hampshire, one of the patients was a 19-year-old man who returned from Wuhan on Jan. 6. The patient was an international student at White Mountain School in Bethlehem. School officials said he was in the Hubei Province of China from Dec. 21 to Jan. 5. Officials said he was home during winter break but is not from Wuhan City.>> NH DHHS information: CoronavirusHospital officials said the man came down with mild respiratory issues after returning to New Hampshire and immediately called for help. He was admitted to the hospital last Thursday as a precaution. He suffered symptoms, including a fever, that were mild. State health officials have released little information about the other patient, including where the person was being treated. Officials said the person recently traveled to China and was kept in isolation while tests were done.The CDC has reported five confirmed cases of the virus in the United States, while China has reported several thousand cases.A Level 3 travel advisory was issued late Monday night urging Americans to postpone any travel to China, with a heightened advisory for Hubei Province, meaning Americans should not travel there at this time.Health officials said the numbers could change in the coming days, but the goal is to contain the virus and stop it from spreading.

Test results for two people in New Hampshire have come back negative for coronavirus, New Hampshire health officials said Thursday. The two patients have fully recovered, officials said. Officials said the two recently traveled to Wuhan, China, the epicenter of the novel coronavirus outbreak. They reported mild symptoms that could have been caused by the virus and were placed in isolation while tests were done. >> NH first responders say they're ready to deal with coronavirus if needed Health officials said there have been more than 7,800 confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus worldwide, surpassing the SARS outbreak in 2002 and 2003. But officials said the death rate appears to be about 2%, significantly lower than that of SARS. In New Hampshire, one of the patients was a 19-year-old man who returned from Wuhan on Jan. 6. The patient was an international student at White Mountain School in Bethlehem. School officials said he was in the Hubei Province of China from Dec. 21 to Jan. 5. Officials said he was home during winter break but is not from Wuhan City.

 Hospital officials said the man came down with mild respiratory issues after returning to New Hampshire and immediately called for help. He was admitted to the hospital last Thursday as a precaution. He suffered symptoms, including a fever, that were mild. State health officials have released little information about the other patient, including where the person was being treated. Officials said the person recently traveled to China and was kept in isolation while tests were done. The CDC has reported five confirmed cases of the virus in the United States, while China has reported several thousand cases.

 A Level 3 travel advisory was issued late Monday night urging Americans to postpone any travel to China, with a heightened advisory for Hubei Province, meaning Americans should not travel there at this time. Health officials said the numbers could change in the coming days, but the goal is to contain the virus and stop it from spreading.