Coronavirus latest: Pet lovers flock to buy masks for their dogs 
 The sight of people wearing masks has become a familiar one in recent days, including those who disembarked from the last British Airways flight out of China prior to the imposition of flight restrictions, which landed at London Heathrow yesterday. However, concerns about the risk the bug may pose to animals have apparently driven people the website of Beijing-based Zhou Tianxiao, who sells the masks via online trading website Taobao.

 Most dogs have started to wear masks
Zhou Tianxiao

Zhou, who lives in the Chinese capital of Beijing, said he has seen sales rocket from 150 packs a month to 50 a day - which if replicated throughout the month would add up to a tenfold increase.
He said: “Most dogs have started to wear masks.
“Because there is this virus, people pay more attention to their health and their pets’ health.”
DON'T MISS
Woman caught in revealing position in London park [PICTURES]
Best and worst cruise lines revealed [ANALYSIS]
Plane passengers to be banned from bringing this onboard [INSIDER]

  
Sylar models one of the coronavirus face masks (Image: Zhou Tianxiao)
  
Sylar prior to donning the mask in the clip (Image: Zhou Tianxiao)
Speaking of his merchandise, which retails for 49 yuan (£5.4) for a pack containing three masks, he said: “The dog masks might not be as professional as the medical masks made for humans, but they are functional.
“Their main purposes are to block out smog, stop dogs from eating or licking food on the floor and prevent them from being exposed to the virus.”
Zhou acknowledged dogs may not be especially happy to don the masks initially, but said: “Compared to risking their lives, prevention is priority.
JUST IN: ‘We’ll fly where we want!’ Spain defiant over Gibraltar

  
Sylar puts one of the masks on (Image: Zhou Tianxiao)
  
Sylar takes a trip down a slide - wearing one of the masks (Image: GETTY)
The 33-year-old’s collie dog Sylar is seen modelling one of the masks in a clip widely shared online, in which the pooch is seen jumping over a fence, leaping down a slide and generally seeming oblivious to the drama unfolding around him.
Coronovirus, like SARS and MERS, is a respiratory infection and is believed to be a zoonotic disease, meaning it crossed over from animals to humans as a result of close contact, possibly at a market in Wuhan selling a wide range of a live animals for human consumption.
Zhou’s customers may partly be motivated by the words of Professor Li Lanjuan, who sits on China’s National Health Commission.

  
A dalmatian with one of the facemasks (Image: Zhou Tianxiao)
Prof Li has urged pet owners to take extra care of their animals, warning that the virus “spreads between mammals”.
She told state broadcaster CCTV: “In this epidemic season, pet owners should strengthen their management of their pets.”
She added: “If your dogs run around outside and come to contact with the outbreak or people infected with the virus, then your pets should also be put in quarantine.
“Because the epidemic spreads between mammals, therefore we should take precaution against other mammals.”

  
Coronavirus symptoms (Image: Daily Express)
The illness, which was first identified in the Chinese city of Wuhan, has now spread to 18 other countries, and there are more than 8,100 cases of the illness worldwide, with 170 deaths, according to the WHO’s latest figures.
Countries have already started to isolated hundreds of citizens evacuated from Wuhan in a bid to prevent the virus from spreading, while the World Health Organization may reassess its stance on declaring an international emergency within hours.
All of the deaths so far have occurred in China, and a Western diplomat, speaking in advance of WHO’s meeting on condition of anonymity, said: “It is not clear that the time is ripe yet.
“It would be more worrying if cases had been detected in Africa where some countries might not have the capacity to detect and isolate cases.”

  
Locations of coronavirus cases around the world (Image: Johns Hopkins University)
  An evacuation flight which will bring British nationals back to the UK from Wuhan will leave on Thursday night, Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab has said.
The flight is due to leave at 7am local time on Friday, which is 11pm on Thursday GMT.
Mr Raab said: “The safety and security of British nationals is our top priority.
“Our Embassy in Beijing and consular teams remain in close contact with British nationals in the region to ensure they have the latest information they need.”