WHO declares coronavirus a public health emergency 
 The World Health Organisation (WHO) says coronavirus is a public health emergency of international concern, after a third meeting about the new virus in Geneva.

It is only the sixth time WHO has declared an international emergency of this kind.

It will mean a greater focus on a worldwide response and more screening at airports

The decision was announced after a meeting of the international organisation's emergency committee, an independent panel of 16 experts, amid mounting evidence of the virus spreading to some 18 countries.

WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he had witnessed an unprecedented outbreak in recent weeks, which had been met by an unprecedented response.

"Let me be clear, this declaration is not a vote of no confidence in China," he said.

Airlines have started suspending flights to China in the wake of the outbreak, but the organisation does not recommend limiting trade and travel due to the virus outbreak.

The disease has killed 170 people in China, with 7,818 cases confirmed by Chinese health authorities.

There are currently nine confirmed cases of the virus in Australia.

Mr Ghebreyesus said measures taken by China to treat and contain the virus "will reverse the tide".

Twice last week the experts had decided not to declare an emergency while they sought more information from China and await evidence of confirmed person-to-person spread of the virus in other countries, so as to meet their criteria for a global emergency.

The declaration of a global emergency triggers recommendations to all countries aimed at preventing or reducing cross-border spread of disease, while avoiding unnecessary interference with trade and travel.

It covers temporary recommendations for national health authorities worldwide, which include stepping up their monitoring, preparedness and containment measures.

Although the WHO has no legal authority to sanction countries, it could ask governments to provide scientific justification for any travel or trade restrictions that they impose in the event of an international emergency.