WHO Declares Coronavirus A Public Health Emergency; Doesn’t Blame China 
 Share to facebook
			
		
	

		
	

		
			Share to linkedin
			
		
	




	

World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus speaks during a press ... [+] conference following a WHO Emergency committee to discuss whether the Coronavirus, the SARS-like virus, outbreak that began in China constitutes an international health emergency, on January 30, 2020 in Geneva. - The UN health agency declared an international emergency over the deadly coronavirus from China -- a rarely used designation that could lead to improved international co-ordination in tackling the disease. (Photo by FABRICE COFFRINI / AFP) (Photo by FABRICE COFFRINI/AFP via Getty Images)
AFP via Getty ImagesThe Wuhan coronavirus is now a global public health emergency, the World Health Organization’s emergency committee on health crises said on Thursday.
“Over the past few weeks we have witnessed the emergence of an unknown pathogen and its growth has been unprecedented,” said WHO director Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, who congratulated China’s work to containing the virus and its transparency. “In many ways China is setting a new standard for outbreak response and this is not an exaggeration,” he said.
On Wednesday, the WHO said in their Situation Report that there were 6,065 cases of coronavirus confirmed globally. Less than 24 hours later, that number is now over 8,200 based on John Hopkins University’s systemic tracking system of the outbreak. Some 170 people have died from complications caused by the pneumonia-like illness, most of them elderly and in the Hubei province, home to the city of Wuhan where the outbreak first occurred in early December.
While everyone is suddenly a virologist and mathematical statistician predicting Hollywood-sized pandemic panic and death tolls all of a sudden, the number of deaths is still below the 775 deaths caused by SARS.  It took SARS 8 months to reach those numbers, so considering this viral outbreak is now in its sixth week, if it led to  200 deaths a month and was over in 8 months, like SARS, then at most there would be 1,600 deaths. But viruses are unpredictable and do not follow mathematical models, so for now death tolls are what everyone will be looking at before more panic sets in.
More airlines are canceling flights to and from China.
Japan’s ANA Airline reported a 40% to 50% drop in passenger sales to China for February, the Nikkei news agency reported.