WHO declares Coronavirus an international emergency 
 WHO declares China virus outbreak an international emergency 



 Reuters  31st Jan 2020 00:00:00 GMT +0300 




Didier Houssin, Chair of the Emergency Committee, speaks next to Director-General of the World Health Organization (WHO) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus during a news conference after a meeting of the Emergency Committee on the novel coronavirus in Geneva, Switzerland January 30, 2020. [Reuters]

The World Health Organization declared on Thursday that the coronavirus epidemic in China now constitutes a public health emergency of international concern.





 Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO director-general, announced the decision after a meeting of its Emergency Committee, an independent panel of experts, amid mounting evidence of the virus spreading to some 18 countries.
Tedros told a news conference in Geneva that recent weeks have witnessed an unprecedented outbreak which has been met by an unprecedented response.
“Let me be clear, this declaration is not a vote of no confidence in China,” he said.

SEE ALSO :Countries implementing about half of WHO recommendations
“Our greatest concern is the potential for the virus to spread to countries with weaker health systems,” he added.
The WHO panel, chaired by Didier Houssin of France, is composed of 16 independent experts.
Twice last week the experts had decided not to declare an emergency while they sought more information from China and awaited evidence of confirmed person-to-person spread of the virus in other countries, so as to meet their criteria for a global emergency.

For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper.   Subscribe Now »

The declaration of a global emergency triggers recommendations to all countries aimed at preventing or reducing cross-border spread of disease, while avoiding unnecessary interference with trade and travel.
It covers temporary recommendations for national health authorities worldwide, which include stepping up their monitoring, preparedness and containment measures.

SEE ALSO :Kenya’s port decision may open floodgates of fake medicine
Although the WHO has no legal authority to sanction countries, it could ask governments to provide scientific justification for any travel or trade restrictions that they impose in the event of an international emergency.





Do not miss out on the latest news. Join the Standard Digital Telegram channel HERE.  









World Health OrganizationTedros Adhanom GhebreyesusCoronavirus