The Decred Drive (Jan 30) 
 The Decred Drive (Jan 30)


Welcome to The Decred Drive. Every Thursday this brief newsletter highlights top-notch Decred content from the previous week.
Wow that week went fast. Vroom vrooooommmm!!
Maybe it just felt fast because of all the action in Decred this week (and the fact that there is so much global news… Impeachment trial, Coronavirus, earthquakes, RIP MAMBA, Lebannon financial crisis, forest fires, $FB stock tanking on earnings (yay!), TSLA stock climbing higher (yay!), ineffective monetary policy, Bitcoin talked about at Davos, and still US equities at ATHs...). In addition to all that, there are self-perpetuated rumors that JY-P (@behindtext on CT) might return to Twitter. What. Is. Going. On.
Let’s review this week’s spotlight action:
Check out Akin Sawyerr’s highlights during the Digital Money Forum on YouTube. “We have monetary systems run by governments, but now Libra is proposing monetary systems run by corporations, and that’s actually a bad idea.” His points are making a lot of sense to me… of course we should move away from money controlled by governments/corporations. The whole point of Decred and Bitcoin is to bring money outside the centralized system and to the individual. That’s the fundamental paradigm shift here… everyone working on Fed$ or Libra knows it is only a matter of time before centrally-controlled money and wealth systems crash.
Check out OUR NETWORK, covering Decred with the help of Checkmate. This is a major crypto publication from Spencer Noon. Highly recommend tracking this publication and Checkmate’s work on L1 on-chain metrics.
#DrawStakey contest has begun. I’m going to design a Stakey drawing later this evening — stay tuned.
Decred made it’s way to Casablanca, Morocco. Great to see supporters around the world advocating for assets as important as Decred. Check out Decred Arabia on Twitter. In honor of Decred’s 4th Birthday, there will be a number of meetups in Morocco — check it out here.
The all-wise CryptoYoda speaks the truth… check it out here. Highly recommend this whole thread. And a very nice response from Decred’s own Jonathan Chappelow. The Decred DEX is coming…
Looks like Dusty Decred locked in the “DCR is WATER and BTC is FIRE” artwork. Nice buy! My Decred artwork just arrived in the mail today — was sent from far, far way. Pictures will be posted in The Decred Drive next week! This artwork is produced by AGNFAB.
Block header commitments are looking like they may be enabled. Voting is nearing a halfway point. Get voting if you haven’t — this is what Decred is all about, empower the sovereign individual to vote and make decisions.
Check out “Why ETH Won’t Sustain a Monetary Premium” by Decred’s own Checkmate. You don’t have to subscribe to Bankless to read this piece.. just scroll down and start reading at “Thursday Thought”. This writing contribution was published in Ryan Sean Adams’ Bankless blog. Good to see top-notch work like this finding it’s way into the Ethereum community. Debates like these refine ideas. Kudos to Ryan Sean Adams (an active Ethereum advocate) for engaging in constructive debate. He has debated constructively on many occasions with Bitcoiners and now Decreditons — great respect for RSA.
Join the Decred team in Chicago for Decred’s 4th Birthday meetup on February 6th. Looking forward to it! If you are a fan of Decred, please reach out! We’d love to help you organize a meet-up in your area.
Lastly, on the trading side, nice tweet and graphic from Permabull Nino and Checkmate — there’s a lot to process here. But, if you’re trading Decred actively, these on-chain metrics and signals provide a good framework to develop a sense of timing for when to scale in (buy at various levels) and scale out (sell at various levels). If your not actively trading DCR, understanding fundamental market dynamics is still valuable to develop a better sense for general DCR market shifts. Decred is it’s own animal, so you’ve got to understand the nuances on-chain. Any questions? Hit up Permabull Nino or Checkmate on Twitter. They’re around and helpful.

Almost Friday — let’s finish the week strong. Onward!
~
Dragon
@DecredDragon on Twitter