Hospital waiting room is evacuated amid coronavirus suspicions 
 A south England hospital was evacuated amid suspicions two patients sitting in a waiting room had coronavirus.

The patients were sat in the waiting area of New Queen Elizabeth II Hospital in Hertfordshire, last night.

In the clip, a hospital worker can be heard saying: 'It's highly unlikely, but the people who do actually test positive in any way, we can contact you in advance of anything going on.'

He then tells the room they have everyone's numbers and 'we can contact you if anything does come back from these people'.

The staff member then says tests will take 24 hours before advising people to look out for 'cold-like symptoms'.

He reassures them there are 'no developed cases at the moment'.

Seconds later, the clip shows people loitering and wandering through the corridor which the cameraman tells them to 'cover up' as he shields his face with his jumper.

They were moved down a corridor by around 40 metres while hospital staff carried out a disinfectant clean.

Everyone's details were taken and told they would be contacted if the tests came back positive, an eye-witness told the Mirror.

The incident was made aware to the East and North Hertfordshire NHS Trust who referred the inquiries to the Department of Health & Social Care (DHSC).

In an update today, zero of the 161 tests carried out on UK patients have come back positive, according to the Department.

It comes as health bosses are on red alert across the UK after the coronavirus epidemic death toll soared to 170 and cases of infection jumped to nearly 8,000 today.

The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared an international public health emergency over the coronavirus outbreak, this evening.

A flight from coronavirus-hit Wuhan is to leave China tonight and fly up to 150 Britons back home who will then enter a 14-day quarantine at an NHS unit on the Wirrall.

A British Airways plane heading home from Hong Kong was put into lock-down amid fears infected patients were on board.

Flights to Beijing and Shanghai have now been banned until February 29 - causing travel chaos for thousands.

The killer coronavirus has infected every region of China - with 7,796 cases confirmed by Chinese officials.

More than 100 have been recorded outside of the nation, taking the toll to almost 8,000.