Stacey Abrams endorses Atlanta pastor in Georgia Senate bid 
 Voting rights advocate and former Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams (D) on Thursday endorsed Atlanta pastor Rev. Raphael Warnock for Senate, the same day he announced his 2020 candidacy for the seat vacated by Sen. Johnny Isakson Johnny IsaksonDoug Collins fires back at head of Senate GOP's campaign arm: 'Fake news' Senate GOP campaign arm rips Collins as selfish for entering Georgia race Doug Collins announces Georgia Senate bid MORE’s (R) retirement.

“Reverend Raphael Warnock is a true ally in our fight for justice,” Abrams tweeted, quote-tweeting Warnock’s announcement video. “That’s why I'm proud to endorse him for U.S. Senate here in GA.”

The endorsement comes as a fight for the Republican nomination is brewing, with Rep. Doug Collins Douglas (Doug) Allen CollinsCollins Senate bid sets off game of musical chairs for GOP Doug Collins fires back at head of Senate GOP's campaign arm: 'Fake news' Senate GOP campaign arm rips Collins as selfish for entering Georgia race MORE (R-Ga.), who emerged as one of President Trump Donald John TrumpDemocrats outraged over White House lawyer's claim that some foreign involvement in elections is acceptable Senators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session White House announces task force to monitor coronavirus MORE’s most vocal defenders in the House’s impeachment hearings, announcing he will challenge Sen. Kelly Loeffler Kelly LoefflerCollins Senate bid sets off game of musical chairs for GOP Doug Collins fires back at head of Senate GOP's campaign arm: 'Fake news' Senate GOP campaign arm rips Collins as selfish for entering Georgia race MORE (R), who Gov. Brian Kemp (R) appointed to the seat to fill the seat earlier this month.

Abrams also sent out a fundraising email touting Warnock on Thursday, according to Politico, praising his leadership on "issues of social justice, economic access and voting rights."

"Georgia deserves a proven leader like Raphael Warnock — a son of South Georgia who knows our state inside and out — he’s traveled its highways, visited its towns and served its people for decades,” the fundraising email adds.

A special election to complete Isakson’s term, which was to end in 2023, will be held in November, with all candidates of all parties competing and a runoff set for January 2021 if no candidate achieves a simple majority. Abrams has declined attempts by state Democrats to run against either Loeffler or Sen. David Perdue (R-Ga.), who is also up for re-election.

Abrams is the latest of several high-profile Democrats to endorse Warnock, including Sens. Cory Booker Cory Anthony BookerLive coverage: Senators query impeachment managers, Trump defense Overnight Defense: White House threatens to veto House Iran bills | Dems 'frustrated' after Iran briefing | Lawmakers warn US, UK intel sharing at risk after Huawei decision White House Correspondents' Association blasts State for 'punitive action' against NPR MORE (D-N.J.) and Chris Murphy Christopher (Chris) Scott MurphyHillicon Valley: EU pushes back against US on Huawei | Interior Department grounds drones over cybersecurity concerns | Warren releases plan to fight election disinformation | House ethics panel warns against posting deepfakes On The Money: Trump takes victory lap with USMCA signing | Fed holds rates steady to open 2020 | Treasury rolls out new sanctions on Russia Democratic senator asks intelligence agencies to open probe into Bezos phone hack MORE (D-Conn.), but the highest-profile figure in Georgia Democratic politics so far.

"Some might ask why a pastor thinks he should serve in the Senate," Warnock, the senior pastor at Atlanta’s historic Ebenezer Baptist Church, said in his announcement. "Well, I've committed my whole life to service and helping people realize their highest potential. I've always thought that my impact doesn't stop at the church door. That's actually where it starts."