Huge queues across China for protective masks as panic buyers strip shelves 
 SHOPS across China are running out of surgical face masks as anxious locals queue streets for miles to stock up on protection from the deadly Wuhan coronavirus.

Retailers are struggling to keep up with demands as people stockpile masks as a first line of defence from the fatal infection, which has so far killed 170 and infected at least 7,700 across 17 countries.

A nationwide shortage of the product has led to long queues forming for hours outside of chemists, with some people even camping out overnight, in the hope of obtaining supplies.

According to locals, some queues could easily last four hours, with people still walking away empty-handed.

Over the past week, people across Singapore, Shanghai, and Hong Kong claim masks have sold out at most local shops, with many photos and videos of the huge amount of people waiting outside stores that are still offering precious stocks.

The shortages are already leading to social tensions, as fights break out amid tense queues of anxious customers.

In Hong Kong, a video emerged of citizens banging angrily on the barricaded doors of a pharmacy in their desperate search for masks, forcing besieged staff to call the police.

Another video by Chinese political activist Badiucao showed a crowd in Jiujiang – a city near Wuhan currently under lockdown – pushing and shoving against a metal gate to buy face masks from factory personnel.

The surge in demand comes despite advice from public health experts that while masks, if used correctly, can help prevent the spread of disease, they cannot guarantee virus protection.

“The face masks that we see people wearing are surgical face masks,” said Dr Mark Parrish, regional medical director of the medical and travel security firm International SOS.

“As you breathe in and out you're breathing air from outside the face mask. So it will stop a little bit but not hugely.”

Hong Kong’s government has said it is “striving to procure more surgical masks to cope with the epidemic”, revealing that it has contacted 140 suppliers in ten countries.

It also plans to boost production in prisons, where prison labour is already used to make surgical masks for hospital workers, to 1.8 million masks per month.

The Taiwanese government has said that current daily production capacity of 1.88 million face masks could be boosted to 2.44 million to meet any spike in demand.

Cambodia, which registered its first new virus case on Monday, plans to give away 1 million masks to people entering the country at Poipet, on its border with Thailand.

The Singapore government has also urged the public not to panic and said on Thursday that each household will receive four surgical masks.

While there have been no positive cases of coronavirus in the UK, Londoners are also rushing to pharmacies to buy up surgical masks and hand sanitiser to keep themselves safe.

As more than 160 Brits have now been tested for the deadly virus, The Sun Online spoke with pharmacies in all 32 of London’s boroughs – just two still had surgical masks in stock.

And it’s not just high street stores struggling to keep up with demand.

Boots have completely sold out of surgical masks online, with their website saying they "won’t be receiving any more stock".

It has been claimed some customers were even posting the masks back to China.

The new coronavirus is believed to have originated late last year in a food market in the Chinese city of Wuhan that was illegally selling wildlife.

Health experts think it may have originated in bats and then passed to humans, possibly via another animal species.

It can be transmitted from person to person, although it is not clear how easily that happens.

Most cases so far are in people who have been in Wuhan, family members of those infected, or medical workers.

Although there have been a handful of confirmed cases of people who haven't visited China.

Transmission is most likely through close contact with an infected person via particles in the air from coughing or sneezing, or by someone touching an infected person or object with the virus on it and then touching their mouth, nose or eyes.

In order to reduce the likelihood of transmission, the WHO recommends that people frequently wash their hands, cover their mouth and nose when sneezing or coughing, and avoid close contact with those who are sick.

Authorities have said that those who develop symptoms such as coughing and fever who have been in China in the last 14 days should call ahead to a healthcare professional to establish if they need to be tested.

This terrifying map pinpoints new outbreaks when and where they happen - in real time

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.