Impeachment closing arguments slated to begin Friday afternoon 
 Senate Republicans are planning for four hours of closing arguments in President Trump Donald John TrumpDemocrats outraged over White House lawyer's claim that some foreign involvement in elections is acceptable Senators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session White House announces task force to monitor coronavirus MORE’s impeachment trial starting Friday afternoon.

The arguments, presented by both the House managers and the Trump's defense team, would be followed by a vote on whether to call additional witnesses and then a final up-or-down vote on the two articles of impeachment.

Republicans are aiming to wrap up the trial proceedings late Friday evening or early Saturday morning, depending on how long Democrats drag out the final vote by offering amendments to the motion to move to a final vote, said Senate Republican Conference Chairman John Barrasso John Anthony BarrassoSenate GOP could move to quick Trump acquittal vote GOP scrambles to sidestep messy witness fight Overnight Energy: Democrats unveil draft climate bill | Plan aims for carbon neutrality by 2050 | GOP senators press IRS on electric vehicle tax credit MORE (Wyo.).

Under the organizing resolution adopted by the Senate last week, House impeachment managers and Trump’s defense team will each have two hours. Previous impeachment trials have allocated four hours for closing arguments.

“My understanding is essentially the closing arguments are going to be two hours for each side tomorrow afternoon, probably starting at one o’clock, until we’re finished with that. Then the vote would occur on the issue of witnesses,” Barrasso said at a brief press conference Thursday during a 20-minute break in the trial.

“If we are able to say, ‘No, we want to go right now to final judgment,’ then we would move in that direction and stay here until that work is decided and completed Friday evening,” he added.

Asked if Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Addison (Mitch) Mitchell McConnellDemocratic senator to force vote requiring Roberts to weigh in on witnesses Evangelical pastor: Jesus would have 'beat the crap' out of John Bolton Bolton's lawyer disputes NSC assessment that manuscript contains classified information MORE (R-Ky.) will move immediately to an up-or-down vote on the articles of impeachment if a motion to allow additional debate and consideration of subpoenas fails, as is expected, Barrasso said, “That’s where all the momentum is right now.”

Barrasso, however, said that Senate Democratic Leader Charles Schumer Charles (Chuck) Ellis SchumerTed Cruz clarifies after Lev Parnas's lawyer calls senator's tweet 'fake news' House Democrats unveil 0B infrastructure plan Democrats to unveil infrastructure plan with eye on 2020 elections MORE (D-N.Y.) could delay the final up-or-down vote by offering amendments to the motion.

He said GOP senators are committed to stay in session to table Schumer’s motion until a final vote on the articles of impeachment.

“There may be a motion that Sen. Schumer can offer amendments just like he did that first day when he introduced like 11 amendments,” Barrasso said, referring to Democrats’ effort to prolong the consideration of the organizing resolution that the Senate eventually adopted at 2 a.m. on Jan. 22.

“At some point, the Democrats will realize their motions will be defeated,” he said.

Some senators have already booked plane tickets out of Washington for Saturday morning, according to a senator familiar with colleagues' travel plans.