Inverted U.S. yield curve points to lingering worries about global economic health 
 The global economic growth concerns that rattled investors last year last year are overshadowing Wall Street once again as China’s coronavirus outbreak threatens to dent the second largest economy in the world, along with hopes for a global rebound.

See: Coronavirus is dealing an early blow to bearish bond-market bets in 2020

The recent narrowing of short-term and long-term U.S. Treasury yields, flattening the yield curve, points to resurfacing worries that the disruption to travel and trade caused by the coronavirus epidemic could upset the U.S.’s steady economic expansion. A flat or inverted yield curve has historically pointed to elevated growth concerns and has served as a trusty recession indicator throughout the U.S.’s postwar history.

“The flattening of the curve is an indication that the growth concerns are greater now,” said Marvin Loh, senior global macro strategist for State Street. “Everything is just a bit more fragile, and we’re all wondering what the next headline is around the coronavirus.”

While most analysts expect U.S. economic growth to slow this year from its 3% pace of 2018, they still expect trend growth of around 2% for 2020. In a repeat of last year, they see healthy consumer spending offsetting a slowdown in more export-sensitive manufacturing sectors.

Read: Here’s how the stock market tends to perform after the yield curve invests

The yield spread between the 3-month TMUBMUSD03M, +0.66%   and 10-year note, a widely-monitored measure of the yield curve’s slope, traded at negative 2 basis points on Thursday. The 10-year Treasury yield TMUBMUSD10Y, +0.54%   was trading at 1.545% at last check, around 22 basis points away from its all-time low of 1.32% carved out in June 2016.

Still, this yield curve measure is much flatter now than back at the end of last year when the spread stood at a positive 37 basis points.

Before the viral outbreak, bond-market analysts were forecasting slightly higher yields in 2020 based on the Federal Reserve’s accommodative monetary policy stance and the signing of a preliminary U.S.-China trade deal, as both factors were seen lifting economic growth and inflation.

Yet with the potential for the coronavirus to derail China’s economic engine in the first few months of this year, hopes that global economic growth would stabilize after the protracted U.S.-China trade spat may be dashed.

“The coronavirus certainly presents a headwind to the reflation of global growth story, which investors were anticipating into this year,” Charlie Ripley, senior investment strategist at Allianz Investment Management, told MarketWatch.

Read: Economic hit from coronavirus likely to be short lived, but it’s still ‘a little scary, frankly’

The inversion of the 3-month/10-year spread has been mostly driven by the sharp demand for safe haven assets like long-term government bonds. At the other end of the yield curve, short-dated maturities have not budged much from current levels, with the Federal Reserve outlining its resistance to move interest rates either higher or lower.

Check out: Here’s when the yield curve actually becomes a stock-market danger signal

However, few see financial conditions as being tight. Investors have attributed the optimistic projections for global stock-markets this year in part to major central banks, including the Fed, maintaining low or negative interest rates along with asset-purchasing programs.

Outside of the bond-market, similar concerns about the global economy’s health have also showed up in commodity markets, including industrial metals.

This month, March futures for copper HGH20, -0.22%   have fallen nearly 10% to $2.521 a pound, and March West Texas Intermediate crude futures CLH20, -0.71%   are down more than 14% to $53.020 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

O pinion: With global trade barely growing, there’s no cushion for the world economy