10 must-reads for today 
 The Wuhan virus "will not stop" the opening of the first stage of the Thomson-East Coast Line (TEL) and it was "all systems go", Transport Minister Khaw Boon Wan said. Yesterday, he accompanied community religious leaders on a visit to the new Woodlands South station, which opens today.

All 1.3 million households in Singapore will be given four surgical masks each starting tomorrow, the Government announced yesterday, even as it reiterated that only people who are unwell should be wearing them.

More Singapore residents held jobs at the end of last year despite economic uncertainties, although employment growth slowed slightly. Meanwhile, unemployment rates rose. Retrenchments last year for the overall workforce were slightly lower compared with 2018.

Three leaders of a megachurch based in the Philippines have been arrested in California and Virginia on charges that they ran a human trafficking ring and a fraudulent charity that had arranged for dozens of sham marriages in the United States.

Bangladesh will start providing Rohingya children in its refugee camps with formal education, 2 1/2 years after they were forced to flee Myanmar. Officials say the move will provide the nearly half a million effectively stateless children with schooling till the age of 14 and training thereafter, in place of informal learning for only younger children.

Amid the coronavirus crisis, China received a morale boost this week when Britain resisted US pressure and gave Huawei a role in building its 5G network. The British decision offers a way forward for Asian nations yet to make their 5G decision, says associate editor Ravi Velloor (below).

Australian Boris Kunsevitsky, 53, sexually abused dozens of boys in South-east Asia while based in Singapore in the early 2000s. He was jailed for 35 years by a Melbourne court on Wednesday.

Struggling retail start-up Honestbee has secured further support from its key investor Brian Koo and his associates, and it is proposing a scheme that would see creditors paid in a mix of cash and equity. Honestbee's total debt to its creditors stands at around $313 million.

Ms Vanessa Bryant spoke out for the first time since her husband Kobe Bryant, the 41-year-old basketball legend, and daughter Gianna, 13, were killed in a helicopter crash on Sunday. She said that the family is completely devastated by the tragedy which also killed seven others. She also thanked well-wishers in Wednesday's Instagram post.

Two more concerts here - that of K-pop acts Taeyeon (above) and NCT Dream - have been postponed as a result of the Wuhan virus outbreak. This comes after news that Hong Kong singer Miriam Yeung's concert on Feb 8 would be postponed.

If you could help build Singapore, which aspects would you focus on? Jobs and education, or healthcare and transport? Try this game to find out how the Republic has done it - and how your city will turn out. str.sg/blurb191

Can someone who has severe to profound hearing loss still excel in music and in school? Well, just ask Mr Justin Kueh, a third-year student at Singapore Management University. str.sg/blurb192