People wear fruit and sanitary towel masks in desperate bid to avoid coronavirus 
 Plastic bottles, sanitary towels and a grapefruit are among the makeshift solutions people have created to protect themselves from coronavirus in China.

Hong Kong and parts of the mainland have been hit by shortages of face masks amid fears of the deadly virus, which scientists are still racing to understand.

Thousands of people desperately queued in front of stores to buy masks today in Hong Kong, where the government is making prisoners work around the clock to produce more.

Medical suppliers in the UK have reported a spike in demand for face masks, while a Welsh firm told the BBC it had sold its entire stock of 500 masks to a Chinese buyer in Leicestershire.

However, Public Health Wales has said there is ‘insufficient evidence’ to suggest there is any benefit of wearing a mask.

The disease can be passed from human to human, however it is unknown exactly how the pathogen spreads.

Similar viruses tend to spread via ‘respiratory droplets’ released when carriers cough or sneeze, causing many to wear masks to protect from the bacteria.

Health experts say only a properly used N95 respirator mask certified by an independent agency can safeguard against the virus.

However, such masks are only efficient if fitted properly and aren’t reliable when used on children or adults with facial hair.

But the World Health Organisation (WHO) has said that even a properly-fitted N95 mask’s effectiveness is uncertain in social situations.

Regular surgical masks also don’t fully seal off the nose and mouth from airborne droplets.

However, some of the makeshift solutions may help by preventing people from touching their nose, mouth and eyes after they have touched contaminated surfaces.

Paper or foam masks or homemade alternatives don’t necessarily block small droplets, which can travel further and in unpredictable paths which can be inhaled around the sides of the masks.

A Beijing retailer has seen a 10-fold increase in orders of special masks for dogs after China’s top virus expert warned that pets could be infected.

The WHO says it has not seen any evidence of the coronavirus being passed onto dogs or cats.