EPA pushes back on Oversight review of ethics program 
 The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is pushing back against allegations from the House Oversight Committee that the agency slow-walked its ethics obligations.

In a letter to the agency earlier this month, the House Oversight and Reform Committee argued EPA let political appointees take months to sign required ethics pledges and compile recusal lists, allowing leaders to work on issues where they had substantial conflicts of interest, the panel argued.

But EPA disputed that Thursday in a letter to the committee,

EPA said many of the employees targeted by the committee for not having ethics recusals were not required to do so under the executive order, given that they were not political appointees and were instead hired under another mechanism used to bring on temporary staff.

“These allegations display a complete lack of understanding of ethics obligations and what is required under current rules or federal law,” the EPA wrote in their letter.

The EPA also argued that Democrats should have reached out to the agency before issuing their press release.

“In doing so, the Committee failed to ensure the accuracy of its claims and ascertain the details behind common agency practices, which were assumed by the Committee to be inadequate or unethical,” EPA wrote in a letter to Oversight Committee Chairwoman Carolyn Maloney Carolyn Bosher MaloneyHouse passes bill aimed at bolstering Holocaust education Government privacy watchdog under pressure to recommend facial recognition ban House Oversight committee asks DHS for information on family separation MORE (D-N.Y.) and subcommittee Chairman Harley Rouda Harley Edwin RoudaHouse holds moment of silence for Kobe Bryant Fifth congressional Democrat backs Bloomberg in 2020 race San Francisco mayor endorses Bloomberg MORE (D-Calif.).

“Career EPA ethics officials did not find a basis for the litany of allegations contained in the January 17, 2020 letter. Moreover, agency staff immediately reached out to committee staff to gain an understanding of any factual information that may support the committee’s allegations identified in its letter.”

In their letter, Maloney and Rouda said they found at least five EPA employees did not have signed ethics pledges required by an executive order from President Trump Donald John TrumpDemocrats outraged over White House lawyer's claim that some foreign involvement in elections is acceptable Senators take reins of impeachment trial in marathon question session White House announces task force to monitor coronavirus MORE. Another eight took an average of 49 days to sign their ethics pledges.

“These documents indicate that EPA allowed senior agency officials to avoid or delay completing required ethics forms and that EPA was missing forms entirely for some officials,” they wrote.

“The Committee identified multiple instances in which EPA officials failed to complete required ethics documents or sign ethics pledges required by Executive Order 13770. EPA also allowed officials to delay the finalization of critical ethics agreements for significant periods of time after joining the agency.”

EPA’s response has not entirely allayed the committee’s concerns, but they have agreed to a meeting with the agency.

“The committee remains concerned about the effectiveness of EPA’s ethics program, and looks forward to receiving a briefing from the senior ethics officials on the issues identified in our letter,” a senior Democratic committee aide told The Hill.