The Coronavirus Global Health Emergency, an Amazon Rival, and More News 
 WHO is declaring and a startup is daring, but first: a cartoon about the power of passwords.
Here's the news you need to know, in two minutes or less.
Want to receive this two-minute roundup as an email every weekday? Sign up here!
Today’s News
The coronavirus is officially a global health emergency
Last week, the World Health Organization decided against declaring the coronavirus outbreak an international health emergency in part because the disease seemed to only be spreading through people who had been to Wuhan, China. But now the virus is spreading human-to-human in other countries, with the first US case being confirmed today. The WHO has reconvened with an emergency vote, deciding to now declare it a global health emergency.
This startup wants to help indie booksellers take on Amazon
Over 90 percent of ebooks and audiobooks sales in America take place on Amazon. But a new startup called Bookshop is trying to change that. the mechanics of buying books there are familiar, but it has few major differences behind the scenes: 10 percent of all profits will be divided among independent bookstores every six months in exchange for promoting Bookshop to their customers. These sellers can also sign up for the company’s affiliate program, which offers a 25 percent commission to stores and 10 percent to media outlets that link to Bookshop. The 5-person startup hopes the improved margins for both sellers and media will help them turn the page on a new era for the publishing industry.
Fast Fact: 112,095
That's how many vehicles Tesla delivered in the fourth quarter last year, a new record for the electric-car maker. Tesla's earnings report yesterday comfortably beat expectations, cementing the company as the world's second-largest automaker by market cap, behind only Toyota.
WIRED Recommends: Gaming Controllers
Every good gamer knows you're only as nimble as your controller allows. So our writers put together a list of the best gaming controllers for every type of player.
News You Can Use
Here's everything you should know about what could be the year's biggest running shoe launch.
This daily roundup is available as a newsletter. You can sign up right here to make sure you get the news delivered fresh to your inbox every weekday!