The deadly new coronavirus is starting to spread in the US. Here's how to protect yourself 
 (CNN) What started as a mystery virus last month in Wuhan, China, has now killed at least 170 people and infected thousands more around the world .

In the US, at least six people have been infected -- including patients in Washington state California Chicago, and Arizona.

Most had recently traveled to Wuhan. But on Thursday, officials announced the first person-to-person transmission of the virus within the US

So what are officials doing to avert a massive outbreak in the US? And how can you minimize your risk of getting infected?

What airports are doing

At several US airports, passengers are being screened for symptoms such as fever, cough and trouble breathing, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said.

Those airports include John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, Los Angeles International Airport, San Francisco International Airport, Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport and Chicago O'Hare International Airport.

At Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, officials put up signs at the international arrivals area instructing travelers from Wuhan to watch for symptoms of the virus.

What scientists are doing

Across the US, scientists are trying to create a vaccine for the new virus. But don't expect it anytime soon.

The National Institutes of Health is working on one, but it will take at least a few months before clinical trials start and more than a year until a vaccine might actually become available.

Separately, scientists in Texas, New York and China are also trying to create on a vaccine, said Dr. Peter Hotez, a vaccine scientist at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston.

But the challenge is daunting.

"The lesson we've learned is coronavirus infections are serious and one of the newest and biggest global health threats," Hotez said.

What you can do yourself

Other symptoms of this coronavirus include fever and shortness of breath. Severe cases can lead to pneumonia, kidney failure and even death.

Anyone with underlying medical conditions should avoid live animal markets and raw meats altogether, since those people are "considered at higher risk of severe disease," the World Health Organization says.

That includes washing your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.

If you're the one feeling sick, cover your mouth and nose when you cough or sneeze, and disinfect the objects and surfaces you touch.

What the CDC is doing

"CDC recommends that travelers avoid all nonessential travel to Wuhan, China," the agency said Thursday.

The announcement came after Chinese officials scheduled a public transportation lockdown for the city's buses, ferries and subways. Airport and rail stations have been temporarily closed for departing passengers, Wuhan authorities said.

For those who traveled to China in the past two weeks and have symptoms such as fever, cough or trouble breathing, the agency recommends seeking immediate care, avoiding contact with others, not traveling and practicing good hygiene.

"At this time, it's unclear how easily or sustainably this virus is spreading between people," the CDC said.

What to do if you're planning to go to China

But Americans visiting friends and family in China might be at greater risk than tourists.