Rewatching Contagion In An Age of Coronavirus 
 “We stream movies in order to tell us how to live,” Joan Didion didn’t write—which doesn’t make it feel any less true from the binge-addled, alarmist, instantly gratified perch of 2020.
Here’s a very recent case in point. For a few weeks now, the world has been rocked by the news of a novel coronavirus—an illness of the respiratory tract like SARS or MERS, so-named because the spikes protruding from its cell membranes “resemble the sun’s corona”—that has, to date, sickened over 7,700 people worldwide and killed 170. The outbreak, which began in Wuhan, China, has since spread to every province of that country, and beyond. As I was writing this, a push alert confirmed that the first person-to-person transmission of the virus—meaning, transmission through an infected person breathing, talking, coughing, or sneezing in the vicinity of others—had been confirmed in the U.S.
Maybe it’s because the SARS and MERS and, for that matter, 21-century Ebola outbreaks were so recent, or maybe it’s because the vast majority of cases have remained in China. But strangely, I haven’t noticed quite the level of hysteria in the U.S., this go-round, that I expected.
This Tuesday, though, Hollywood Reporter noticed that since last week, Steven Soderbergh’s 2011 outbreak thriller Contagion—starring (among others) Gwyneth Paltrow, Matt Damon, Marion Cotillard, Laurence Fishburne, Jude Law, and Kate Winslet—had gotten a drastic boost on the iTunes movie rental chart, where it apparently peaked at number 10. As of this writing, it sits in fourteenth place, nestled among newly minted Oscar nominees and mid-tier blockbusters that flunked in theaters but have a lot more appeal at the discounted price of an online rental, like Gemini Man.
Contagion is a year short of a decade old, making it the oldest movie on the top end of iTunes’s chart—for reasons that are more than obvious to anyone who’s seen it. The movie, written by Scott Z. Burns with the full benefit of the 2003 SARS outbreak in hindsight, tracks the spread of a lethal virus from China that sweeps the world. It also tracks the race—in the medical community, among journalists, and for everyday people just trying to survive—to contain its spread and prevent further casualties. Which is to say that it’s almost a movie about life as we, in January 2020, seem to know it. “We,” here, means everyone watching the Wuhan coronavirus play out from a safe enough distance that a movie would even come to mind as a way to process it. The “almost” is because, at least so far, we’re a lot better off than the people in the movie.
I’ve written at length about Contagion, and am on the record as a die-hard fan. Everything I said previously rings only more true today: This is an epic story told on an unnervingly intimate scale, vast enough to make the virus seem completely inescapable, no matter where you are, but contained enough that its depiction of ease with which a virus spreads from person-to-person proves vivid and terrifying. Even one of the researchers on the ground, played by Winslet, gets sick.
Soderbergh and Burns serve up a near-punishing stream of reminders that humans are a vulnerable species—that our interconnectedness is both what sustains our humanity (as shown in the measures taken by characters to protect their loved ones) and puts it at imminent risk. Look at the attention they pay to hands and drinking glasses and other banal points of contact—the movie’s tendency to hyperfocus on what a tragically social species we are.