Britons flying from Wuhan will be kept in quarantine at Wirral NHS facility 
 Britons on an evacuation flight from the coronavirus-stricken city of Wuhan are to be quarantined in an NHS facility on the Wirral, Merseyside.

Passengers will be taken to a former student accommodation block in the grounds of Arrowe Park Hospital, where they will be kept for 14 days.

The government booked the private charter plane to carry around 150 UK citizens located in the city – which is the epicentre of the outbreak – and nearby areas.

It took off at 7am local time on Friday (11pm on Thursday UK time) and will land at RAF Brize Norton, in Oxfordshire.

However, health experts said it is unlikely that any of those quarantined will be carrying the virus.

Janelle Holmes, chief executive of Wirral University Hospital, sent a message to staff on Thursday evening outlining the plan.

She wrote: ‘Before arrival they will be screened for symptoms. If anyone becomes unwell after arrival they will be treated following appropriate protocols.’

It is understood they will have access to the internet and be able to contact their families.

Some 50 foreign passengers, mainly from EU countries, will remain on the plane and will be flown to Spain afterwards.

Virgin Atlantic has joined British Airways in suspending trips to China amid the crisis, in a bid to prevent the virus spreading further.

Virgin flights to Shanghai will be suspended for two weeks from Sunday, while BA has suspended all flights to and from the mainland until Monday.

The Foreign Office has urged British citizens not to travel to mainland China unless absolutely necessary.

A flight out of Wuhan for British nationals was previously planned for Thursday but was denied clearance by Chinese authorities.

It’s understood the British Consulate gave citizens letters to help get past security checkpoints on the way to the airport.

Passengers say they have been told only to take hand luggage on the plane.

Families have been separated after the Chinese government refused to grant exemptions to travel restrictions for Chinese passport-holders with British relatives.

The British government hopes to fly out more UK citizens in the city and the surrounding Hubei province.