Japan confirms first case of infection from mystery Wuhan coronavirus 
 TOKYO - Japan has confirmed its first case of infection from the mystery Wuhan pneumonia-like virus, the health ministry said on Thursday (Jan 16).

A man in his 30s living in Kanagawa prefecture, south of Tokyo, tested positive for the new virus strain, the ministry said.

The man, who is a Chinese national, first developed fever symptoms on Jan 3 during a visit to Wuhan. He returned to Japan on Jan 6, and was hospitalised on Jan 10.

He was discharged upon full recovery on Wednesday (Jan 15), with the National Institute of Infectious Diseases confirming that the man had been infected with the new coronavirus strain.

While most of the reported cases thus far have been traced to the Wuhan Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, the man said he had not visited the market during his trip to China.

This has led Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare to conclude that he might have been infected from close contact with a patient.

In Wuhan, 41 cases of the virus have been reported, with one dead. As of Sunday (Jan 12), six were in serious condition, while seven recovered and were discharged from hospital.

No new cases have been reported in Wuhan since Jan 3, but a 61-year-old Chinese woman who became sick in Thailand tested positive for the virus this week.

Like in the Japanese case, she did not report having visited the wholesale market, which has been shut down since Jan 1.

The World Health Organisation has said the mystery virus, which is from the same group as the deadly Sars pathogen, has shown "some limited human-to-human transmission".

Japan's National Institute of Infectious Diseases prepared specific diagnostic kits after China shared the genetic sequence of the coronavirus on Sunday.

Japan has tightened health monitoring checks at its immigration entry points, expecting a surge in Chinese visitors during the Chinese New Year holiday this month.

The government has also called on hospitals to swiftly report any cases of patients who have developed pneumonia after having visited Wuhan.

In response to the confirmed case, Japan has set up an information liaison office at its crisis management centre to monitor and respond to any new cases.