Two dead from deadly new pneumonia virus strain outbreak spreading from China 
 Two people have been killed by a deadly new pneumonia virus strain as Chinese authorities warn it has spread to other countries.

Wuhan pneumonia is the name for a new coronavirus which has struck down 41 people since breaking out in the Chinese city of Wuhan.

Officials in Wuhan said last weekend that 41 people had pneumonia caused by the new coronavirus and a 61-year-old man had become the first person known to have died. Today, reports are emerging that a second person has died.

The patient who died is a 69-year-old man, who saw the onset of illness on December 31, according to Chinese media. He died on January 15.

China has sought to play down speculation that it could be a reappearance of the Sars epidemic, which killed hundreds in 2002 and 2003.

Meanwhile Japan's government has confirmed that a man treated for pneumonia after returning from China has tested positive for the new coronavirus identified as a possible cause of an outbreak in the Chinese city of Wuhan.

The man developed a fever and cough on January 3 while in Wuhan, the sprawling capital of Central China’s Hubei province.

He returned to Japan on January 6 and was taken to hospital four days later as the symptoms persisted. His X-ray image showed signs of pneumonia, officials said.

The man has since been released from hospital as his condition improved. He was only identified as a man in his thirties in the Kanagawa prefecture, west of Tokyo, and Kyodo News agency said he is Chinese.

The World Health Organisation said it was consulting with Thai and Chinese health authorities after a case was reported in Thailand.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses, some of which cause the common cold. Others found in bats, camels and other animals have evolved to cause more severe illnesses.

Common symptoms include a runny nose, headache, cough and fever. Shortness of breath, chills and body aches are associated with more dangerous kinds of coronaviruses, according to the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention.

A fish market in Wuhan has been linked to the outbreak.

Japanese official Eiji Hinoshita told reporters that the Japanese man who returned from China told officials he did not go to the fish market, but had "close contact" with at least one person with pneumonia symptoms at a place where he stayed during the visit.