China reports first death in new pneumonia outbreak 
 One patient has died in an outbreak of a new strain of pneumonia in central China, according to health authorities.

The Wuhan Municipal Health Commission in Hubei province said on Saturday that of the 41 people identified as infected with the pneumonia, one had died, seven remained in a serious condition and two had been discharged.

Cases of a mystery virus – since identified as a new strain of coronavirus – emerged in Wuhan last month. Many of the patients had worked at a seafood market where wild animals such as pheasants and snakes, as well as rabbit organs, had also been sold. The market has since been closed.

The commission said no new cases had been reported since January 3, and no medical staff had been infected.

“There is no clear evidence proving human-to-human transmission,” it said.

A senior official at the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention told state news agency Xinhua on Thursday that laboratory tests had identified the new virus and its genome sequence.

Coronaviruses are a family of viruses that cause diseases varying in severity from the common cold to the deadly severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars).

Of the six previously known human coronaviruses, four were common and caused only minor respiratory symptoms similar to those of a cold. The other two are Sars, which killed more than 700 people worldwide after originating in China, and Middle East respiratory syndrome, which has killed more than 850 around the world since 2012.

In Hong Kong, 54 people had been admitted to hospitals with respiratory problems after returning from Wuhan, city health authorities said on Friday. Of those, 31 had been discharged.

Infectious diseases specialist Professor Yuen Kwok-yung, from the University of Hong Kong, said that based on reports of no evidence of human-to-human transmission there was only a small risk of the risk of the disease spreading from Wuhan during the Lunar New Year holiday season.

Wuhan is one of the country’s biggest transport hubs and millions of people travel throught the country over the holiday period.

This year’s travel period began on Friday, two weeks ahead of the festival at the end of January.

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

This article China reports first death in new pneumonia outbreak first appeared on South China Morning Post

For the latest news from the South China Morning Post download our mobile app. Copyright 2020.