Mystery lung virus causes first death in China with seven others fighting for life 
 THE first victim of the now deadly mystery virus spreading across China has been identified as seven others remain in a critical condition.

The 61-year-old man has been confirmed dead after suffering heart failure and pneumonia caused by the virus. He also had abdominal tumors and chronic liver disease.

2

 China is on high alert as crowds gather to celebrate Chinese New YearCredit: AP:Associated Press
The virus is highly contagious and is currently sweeping across China, putting the rest of Asia on alert as China prepares to celebrate Chinese New Year on January 25.

Countries and cities linked to Wuhan such as Hong Kong, South Korea and Taiwan are on high alert.

Chinese authorities are disinfecting all public vehicles and transport hubs including airports, bus and train stations and ports.

China has ordered all doctors to report anyone who reports symptoms of fever and has been to Wuhan in the last few weeks.

Many of the 41 confirmed infected, including the first victim, were vendors and buyers at the South China Seafood City food market in the packed city.

An extra 121 people have been put under close watch since they have been close to infected patients.

Experts now believe that it is a form of coronavirus that is 80 per cent similar to SARS, which killed thousands in the early 2000s, though China is going to great lengths to downplay this.

It is currently unclear whether the virus could further change to become more lethal, as the SARS virus had.

WHAT IS CORONAVIRUS?


Coronavirus is an airborne virus, spread in a similar way to colds and the flu.

The virus attacks the respiratory system, causing lung lesions.

Symptoms include a runny nose, headache, cough and fever, shortness of breath, chills and body aches.

It is incredibly contagious and is spread through contact with anything the virus is on as well as infected breath, coughs or sneezes.

In 2003 an outbreak of a similar virus, SARS, killed more than 900 around the world within weeks.

The virus may have already spread to Hong Kong, South Korea and Taiwan.




FLASHBACKS

The Wuhan Municipal Health Commission said its initial investigations have ruled out SARS, the Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), influenza, bird flu and adenovirus.

Investigations are still being carried out by Chinese and international health bodies.

2

 There were fears the virus could be SARS which killed 775 people by 2003Credit: AP:Associated Press
WHAT IS SARS?


SARS, or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, is an airborne virus, spread in a similar way to colds and the flu.

If someone breathes small droplets of saliva from a cough or sneeze, they can become infected.

In 2003 an outbreak of Sars killed more than 900 around the world within weeks.

It began in Hong Kong and spread to almost 40 countries, infecting 8,500 people

The infection killed 775 people, which means the virus killed 1 in 10 of those who were infected.

Since 2004, there have not been any known cases of SARS reported anywhere in the world.





Fears that deadly virus could be contagious